The Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series on family values and child rearing constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech.

The Supreme Court has established that the extent of permissible governmental regulation of expressive activity on publicly owned property depends on the character of the public property in question (Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 44 (1983)). The Court has identified three categories of publicly owned property: traditional public forums, limited or designated public forums, and nonpublic forums (Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S. 788, 802 (1985)).

The Center Moriches School District facilities are a limited public forum, as they have been opened for use by the general public for certain purposes. In a limited public forum, the government may not exclude speech based on its content unless the exclusion is reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum and is viewpoint-neutral (Perry, 460 U.S. at 46). The School District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series, which is a religiously oriented discussion of family values and child rearing, is not viewpoint-neutral. The District permits other groups to use its facilities for discussions on similar topics, but denies access to Lamb's Chapel because of the religious content of its speech.

The Second Circuit erred in holding that the School District's facilities were not open to religious uses by policy or practice. The District's past practice of allowing various groups to use its facilities for expressive activities, including discussions on family and social issues, demonstrates that it has created a limited public forum (Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 267 (1981)). The fact that the District has not previously allowed religious groups to use its facilities for religious purposes does not justify excluding Lamb's Chapel's film series, as the content of the speech, not the identity of the speaker, is the basis for the exclusion.

The Supreme Court's decisions in Widmar v. Vincent and Board of Education of the Westside Community Schools v. Mergens support Lamb's Chapel's claim. In Widmar, the Court held that a state university could not deny access to university facilities to students who wished to conduct religious meetings on campus, as the university had created a forum generally open for use by student groups (454 U.S. at 273). Similarly, in Mergens, the Court held that a high school had created a limited open forum by allowing noncurriculum-related student groups to use school facilities, and that denying a request to form a Christian club was a denial of equal access under the Equal Access Act (496 U.S. 226, 247 (1990)).

The School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use its facilities for a religious-oriented film series is a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech. The Second Circuit's decision should be reversed, and the School District should be enjoined from denying Lamb's Chapel access to its facilities.