The Court of Appeals erred in holding that the District Court should have instructed the jury on punitive damages. Under the Civil Rights Act of 1991, punitive damages are available under Title VII only if the employer engaged in a discriminatory practice "with malice or with reckless indifference to the federally protected rights of an aggrieved individual." 42 U.S.C. § 1981a(b)(1). The legislative history of the Act indicates that Congress intended to require more than mere intentional discrimination to support an award of punitive damages.

As the concurring opinion in the Court of Appeals noted, there is a circuit split on the standard for awarding punitive damages under § 1981, which is analogous to § 1981a. Some circuits have required "egregious" discrimination, while others have followed a more lenient standard. Kolstad v. American Dental Ass'n, 139 F.3d 958, 969 (D.C. Cir. 1998) (Williams, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). The views expressed by Senator Dole and Representative Edwards in the legislative history can be reconciled by adopting the "egregiousness" standard. Id. at 970.

The "egregiousness" standard is consistent with the common law trend requiring something more blameworthy than the intention required for liability for intentional torts. See id. at 969-70. This standard is also supported by the House Report, which stated that § 1981a demands "an even higher standard" than simple proof of intentional discrimination. H.R. Rep. No. 102-40(II), at 29 (1991).

In this case, the District Court properly denied Kolstad's request for punitive damages because ADA's conduct, while discriminatory, was not "egregious" or "outrageous." The jury found that ADA intentionally discriminated against Kolstad, but the evidence does not show that ADA acted with "malice" or "reckless indifference" to Kolstad's federally protected rights.

The Court of Appeals' decision to remand for a trial on punitive damages was incorrect because it failed to consider the "egregiousness" standard. On remand, the District Court should have applied this standard to determine whether ADA's conduct warranted punitive damages. As the Supreme Court has noted, "the common law has long recognized that punitive damages are available in tort actions where the defendant's conduct is 'outrageous.'" Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30, 56 (1983).

In conclusion, the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the District Court should have instructed the jury on punitive damages. The "egregiousness" standard is the correct standard for awarding punitive damages under § 1981a, and ADA's conduct did not meet this standard. Therefore, the judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed.