The District Court's failure to advise Manuel Peguero of his right to appeal, as required by Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 32(a)(2), does not provide a basis for habeas relief when Peguero was aware of his right and elected not to appeal. The Court of Appeals correctly applied harmless-error review to the Rule 32 violation and determined that the rule's purpose was served because Peguero knew of his right to appeal at the time of sentencing.

The plain language of Rule 32(a)(2) does not specify the consequence of a court's failure to advise a defendant of his right to appeal. In the absence of such a specification, the general principle of harmless-error review applies. As this Court held in United States v. Olano, 507 U.S. 725, 734 (1993), "Rule 52(a) [of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure] defines harmless error and directs courts to disregard it." The Court further explained that "the standard for determining whether an error is harmless... is whether the error 'affect[ed] substantial rights' of the defendant." Id. 

In this case, the District Court's failure to advise Peguero of his right to appeal did not affect his substantial rights because he was aware of his right and chose not to exercise it. The Court of Appeals correctly concluded that the Rule 32 violation was subject to harmless-error review and that the error was harmless because Peguero knew of his right to appeal. See United States v. Drummond, 903 F.2d 1391, 1393 (11th Cir. 1990) (holding that a Rule 32 violation is subject to harmless-error review).

Peguero's claim that any violation of Rule 32 is sufficient to vacate his sentence is not supported by this Court's precedent. In United States v. Timmreck, 441 U.S. 780 (1979), the Court held that a guilty plea was not subject to collateral attack for a technical violation of Rule 11. Similarly, a technical violation of Rule 32 should not be grounds for habeas relief when the defendant was aware of his right to appeal and chose not to exercise it.

The purpose of Rule 32(a)(2) is to ensure that defendants are aware of their right to appeal. As the Court of Appeals noted, this purpose was served in Peguero's case because he knew of his right to appeal at the time of sentencing. Therefore, the District Court's failure to advise Peguero of his right to appeal was harmless error, and Peguero is not entitled to habeas relief.

For these reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals should be affirmed.