The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not give rise to a cause of action on behalf of a "class of one." The Seventh Circuit's holding that a plaintiff can allege an equal protection violation by asserting that state action was motivated solely by a "spiteful effort to 'get' him for reasons wholly unrelated to any legitimate state objective" is an unwarranted expansion of the Equal Protection Clause.

The Equal Protection Clause is traditionally understood to protect against discrimination based on membership in a particular class or group. See, e.g., Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954) (striking down segregation in public schools); McLaughlin v. Florida, 379 U.S. 184 (1964) (invalidating a statute that prohibited interracial cohabitation). The Clause is not intended to provide a cause of action for individualized grievances unrelated to class-based discrimination.

In F.S. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U.S. 412 (1920), this Court established that the Equal Protection Clause requires that "all persons similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike." Id. at 415. However, the Court has never held that the Clause applies to individualized decisions that are not based on class membership. To the contrary, the Court has emphasized that the Equal Protection Clause is concerned with protecting against "arbitrary and capricious" government action that targets a particular group or class. See, e.g., Railway Express Agency, Inc. v. New York, 336 U.S. 106, 112 (1949) (Jackson, J., concurring).

Allowing a "class of one" claim would effectively constitutionalize many ordinary tort and contract disputes between individuals and the government. See, e.g., Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 577 (1972) (noting that "the Constitution does not require that the government provide a hearing or any other procedural safeguards for every decision that might affect a person's interests"). The Seventh Circuit's holding would create a new and expansive federal cause of action, undermining the traditional distinction between constitutional and state-law claims.

In this case, Olech's claim is essentially a dispute over the Village's demand for an easement in exchange for connecting her property to the municipal water supply. While Olech may have a legitimate grievance, it is not a constitutional claim cognizable under the Equal Protection Clause. The District Court correctly dismissed Olech's complaint for failure to state a cognizable claim under the Equal Protection Clause.

The judgment of the Seventh Circuit should be reversed, and the District Court's dismissal of Olech's complaint should be reinstated.