The Sixth Circuit's decision in this case is erroneous because it held that a procedurally defaulted claim of ineffective assistance of counsel can serve as cause to excuse the procedural default of another habeas corpus claim. However, as the Supreme Court has held, a claim that has been procedurally defaulted cannot serve as cause to excuse another default unless the claim itself is not defaulted or the default is excused. See Murray v. Carrier, 477 U.S. 478, 488-89 (1986).

In Edwards v. Carpenter, the petitioner, Robert Carpenter, procedurally defaulted his sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim by failing to raise it on direct appeal. Carpenter then alleged that his appellate counsel was constitutionally ineffective in failing to raise the sufficiency claim, but this ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim was also procedurally defaulted because it was not raised in a timely manner in state court. The District Court and the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the procedurally defaulted ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim could excuse the procedural default of the sufficiency claim.

The Supreme Court has established that a habeas petitioner must demonstrate cause and prejudice to overcome a procedural default. See Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U.S. 72, 87 (1977). In this case, Carpenter's ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim is itself procedurally defaulted, and therefore, it cannot serve as cause to excuse the default of the sufficiency claim. See Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U.S. 722, 753-54 (1991) (holding that attorney error that results in a procedural default is not cause to excuse the default unless the attorney error was itself a constitutional violation).

The Court of Appeals' decision is contrary to the Supreme Court's holding in Murray v. Carrier, which requires that a claim asserted as cause be itself not procedurally defaulted. 477 U.S. at 488-89. Allowing a procedurally defaulted claim to serve as cause would undermine the principles of procedural default and the interests of finality and comity that they serve. See Coleman, 501 U.S. at 750.

Therefore, the judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed because a procedurally defaulted claim of ineffective assistance of counsel cannot serve as cause to excuse the procedural default of another habeas corpus claim. The District Court's order denying the writ should be reinstated.