ARGUMENT

The Eighth Amendment does not categorically prohibit the execution of mentally retarded individuals. As this Court held in Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302 (1989), the execution of mentally retarded persons is not per se "cruel and unusual punishment" under the Eighth Amendment. While the Court acknowledged that there was a national trend against executing the mentally retarded, it concluded that this trend had not yet reached a consensus. Id. at 334-35.

Since Penry, some states have enacted legislation prohibiting the execution of mentally retarded individuals. However, this development does not necessarily indicate a national consensus against such executions. As this Court noted in Stanford v. Kentucky, 492 U.S. 361 (1989), the fact that some states have enacted legislation on a particular issue does not establish a national consensus. Id. at 370-71.

Moreover, the Virginia Supreme Court correctly applied the Penry standard in affirming Atkins' death sentence. The court considered Atkins' mental retardation as a mitigating factor during the sentencing phase, as required by Penry. See Atkins v. Commonwealth, 534 S.E.2d 312, 321-22 (Va. 2001). The jury's consideration of this mitigating evidence, combined with the aggravating circumstances of the crime, led to the imposition of the death penalty.

The Eighth Amendment requires that punishment be proportionate to the offense. See Weems v. United States, 217 U.S. 349, 367 (1910). In this case, the aggravating circumstances of the crime, including the brutal nature of the murder, outweigh the mitigating evidence of Atkins' mental retardation. The death penalty is not disproportionate to the offense, and its imposition does not violate the Eighth Amendment.

In conclusion, the execution of mentally retarded individuals is not categorically prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. The Virginia Supreme Court correctly applied the Penry standard, and the death penalty imposed on Atkins is proportionate to the offense. Therefore, this Court should affirm the judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court.