ARGUMENT

THE EXECUTION OF MENTALLY RETARDED PERSONS DOES NOT CONSTITUTE "CRUEL AND UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT" PROHIBITED BY THE EIGHTH AMENDMENT.

The Eighth Amendment prohibits "cruel and unusual punishments." U.S. Const. amend. VIII. The Virginia Supreme Court correctly held that the execution of mentally retarded persons, including petitioner Daryl Renard Atkins, does not violate this prohibition. As this Court held in Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302 (1989), the Eighth Amendment does not categorically prohibit the execution of mentally retarded persons. Id. at 340. Although the Court acknowledged that mentally retarded individuals may be less culpable for their crimes, it concluded that the Eighth Amendment does not require a blanket exemption from the death penalty for this group. Id. at 334-35.

Since Penry, there has been no significant change in the national consensus regarding the execution of mentally retarded persons that would warrant a departure from this holding. While some states have enacted legislation prohibiting the execution of mentally retarded individuals, see, e.g., Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-13-203 (1999), these developments do not represent a broad societal consensus against the practice. As this Court noted in Stanford v. Kentucky, 492 U.S. 361 (1989), "it is not the burden of [the states] to establish a consensus, but rather [petitioner's] burden to establish that a national consensus forbids the imposition of capital punishment" on mentally retarded individuals. Id. at 373. Petitioner has not met this burden.

Furthermore, the Virginia Supreme Court's decision is consistent with the principle that the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on "cruel and unusual punishments" is not a static concept, but rather one that evolves over time as societal norms and values change. See Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958). However, in the absence of a clear national consensus against the execution of mentally retarded persons, it is not for the courts to impose such a prohibition.

In this case, the Virginia Supreme Court correctly applied the holding in Penry v. Lynaugh and rejected Atkins' contention that his mental retardation rendered him ineligible for the death penalty. The court's decision is entitled to deference, and petitioner has not demonstrated that it was erroneous.

For these reasons, this Court should affirm the judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court and hold that the execution of mentally retarded persons does not constitute "cruel and unusual punishment" prohibited by the Eighth Amendment.