The petitioner, Carol Anne Bond, was convicted under 18 U.S.C. § 229 for possessing and using a chemical weapon. Bond challenges her conviction on the grounds that the statute is beyond the federal government's enumerated powers and inconsistent with the Tenth Amendment. However, Bond lacks standing to raise a Tenth Amendment challenge to § 229.

The Supreme Court has held that private parties do not have standing to challenge a federal act on the basis of the Tenth Amendment. In Tennessee Electric Power Co. v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 306 U.S. 118 (1939), the Court rejected a Tenth Amendment claim brought by private utility companies, stating that "absent the states or their officers, [the utility companies] have no standing in this suit to raise any question under the [Tenth] [Amendment]." Id. at 144. This holding establishes that private parties, like Bond, cannot challenge a federal statute on Tenth Amendment grounds.

The Necessary and Proper Clause of the Constitution grants Congress the authority to enact laws necessary to execute its treaty obligations. In Missouri v. Holland, 252 U.S. 416 (1920), the Supreme Court upheld a federal statute enacted to implement a treaty, holding that "if [a] treaty is valid there can be no dispute about the validity of the statute under Article I, § 8, as a necessary and proper means to execute the powers of the Government." Id. at 432. The Chemical Weapons Convention is a valid treaty, and 18 U.S.C. § 229 is a necessary and proper means to execute the powers of the Government under the Treaty Power.

The Tenth Amendment does not limit Congress's authority to enact laws under the Treaty Power. As the Court noted in Holland, "it is obvious that there may be matters of the sharpest exigency for the national well being that an act of Congress could not deal with but that a treaty followed by such an act could." Id. at 433. Therefore, even if § 229 were otherwise prohibited legislation under the Tenth Amendment, the treaty power invests Congress with independent authority to pass it.

Bond's challenge to her conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 229 should be rejected due to her lack of standing to raise a Tenth Amendment claim. The statute is a valid exercise of Congress's authority under the Treaty Power and the Necessary and Proper Clause.