I. The Federal Circuit Erred in Affirming the District Court's Damages Award Based on Samsung's Entire Profits from its Smartphones

The Federal Circuit's decision to affirm the district court's damages award based on Samsung's entire profits from its smartphones contravenes the plain language of 35 U.S.C. § 289. Section 289 provides that an infringer of a design patent "shall be liable to the owner to the extent of his total profit, but not less than $250, recovered in the same manner as provided in section 284." The statute's reference to "total profit" has been interpreted to mean the total profit attributable to the infringing article. See Nike, Inc. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 138 F.3d 1437, 1441-42 (Fed. Cir. 1998) (citing Schnadig Corp. v. Gaines Mfg. Co., 620 F.2d 1166, 1170-71 (6th Cir. 1980)).

When a design patent only applies to a component of a product, damages for the infringement should be limited to the portion of the infringer's profits attributable to that component. See Schnadig Corp., 620 F.2d at 1171 (holding that the "total profit" under § 289 refers to the profit attributable to the infringing article, not the entire product). The Federal Circuit's failure to apportion damages accordingly results in an unjust windfall to the patentee.

The Supreme Court has long recognized that apportionment is a critical component of patent damages. See Garretson v. Clark, 111 U.S. 120, 121 (1884) (holding that damages for patent infringement must be apportioned to reflect the value of the infringing feature). In the context of design patents, apportionment is particularly important because the infringing design may be only a component of a larger product. See Schnadig Corp., 620 F.2d at 1171.

In this case, the district court's damages award was based on Samsung's entire profits from its smartphones, despite the fact that the infringed design patents only applied to certain components of those phones. The Federal Circuit's affirmance of this award ignores the statutory requirement to apportion damages and contravenes established precedent.

II. The Federal Circuit Should Have Limited Damages to the Profits Attributable to the Infringing Components

To determine the appropriate damages award, the court should have considered the profits attributable to the infringing components, rather than the entire smartphone. See Nike, 138 F.3d at 1441-42. This approach is consistent with the statutory language and relevant case law.

By failing to apportion damages, the Federal Circuit's decision creates an unjust and overly broad damages award that punishes Samsung for profits unrelated to the infringing design. This outcome is contrary to the principles of patent law and the statutory framework governing design patent damages.

The Court should reverse the Federal Circuit's decision and remand for a determination of damages that is limited to the profits attributable to the infringing components.