The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) regulates the conduct of "debt collectors," not "creditors." The key issue in this case is whether Santander Consumer USA, Inc. (Santander), which purchased defaulted car loans from CitiFinancial Auto and then attempted to collect the debts, is a "debt collector" subject to the FDCPA.

The FDCPA defines a "debt collector" as a person who "regularly collects or attempts to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed or due or asserted to be owed or due another." 15 U.S.C. § 1692a(6). The plain meaning of this definition requires that the debt be owed to another at the time of collection. As the Supreme Court has long held, the plain meaning of a statute should be given effect unless it leads to an absurd result. See Caminetti v. United States, 242 U.S. 470, 485 (1917) ("It is elementary that the meaning of a statute must, in the first instance, be sought in the language in which the act is framed, and if that is plain, ... the sole function of the courts is to enforce it according to its terms.").

In this case, Santander purchased the defaulted loans from CitiFinancial Auto and then attempted to collect the debts for its own account. At the time of collection, the debts were owed to Santander, not CitiFinancial Auto. Therefore, Santander does not meet the definition of a "debt collector" under the FDCPA.

The statutory language and structure support this interpretation. The FDCPA distinguishes between "debt collectors" and "creditors," with the latter being defined as a person to whom the debt is owed. 15 U.S.C. § 1692a(4). When Santander collected the debts, it was acting as a creditor, not a debt collector.

The principle of statutory construction that requires giving effect to the plain meaning of a statute is supported by precedent. In United States v. Wiltberger, 18 U.S. 76 (1820), the Court held that "the will of the legislature ... is to be ascertained by the words of the statute." Id. at 95-96. Applying this principle to the FDCPA, it is clear that Santander is not a "debt collector" when collecting debts it owns.

Furthermore, the Court has long recognized that a statute should be construed to avoid absurd or unintended consequences. See Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U.S. 457, 460 (1892) ("It is a familiar rule, that a thing may be within the letter of the statute and yet not within the statute, because not within its spirit, nor within the intention of its makers."). Interpreting the FDCPA to exclude creditors collecting their own debts from the definition of "debt collector" is consistent with this principle.

In conclusion, based on the plain meaning of the FDCPA and principles of statutory construction established by precedent, Santander is not a "debt collector" subject to the FDCPA when collecting debts it owns. The judgment of the court of appeals should be affirmed.