The Ninth Circuit erred in holding that a plaintiff's "actual knowledge" under ERISA's three-year statute of limitations requires only that the plaintiff be aware of the underlying transaction, not that the transaction was imprudent or violated ERISA. This interpretation is inconsistent with the plain meaning of "actual knowledge" and the legislative history of ERISA.

Although ERISA itself does not define "actual knowledge," the courts have looked to pre-ERISA cases for guidance. In Hotchkiss v. Nelson R. Thomas Agency, 157 F.2d 454 (9th Cir. 1946), the Ninth Circuit held that a plaintiff's knowledge of a transaction is not sufficient to start the statute of limitations running if the plaintiff does not know the facts that make the transaction unlawful. The court stated that "knowledge of facts, not legal knowledge, is the test" (id. at 457), but this statement must be understood in context to mean that the plaintiff must have knowledge of the facts that give rise to the claim, not just the transaction itself.

Similarly, in Bailey v. Glover, 88 U.S. 342 (1874), the Supreme Court held that a statute of limitations does not begin to run until the plaintiff has knowledge of the facts that give rise to the claim. The Court stated that "where the fraud is concealed... or where it is of such character as to conceal itself," the statute of limitations is tolled until the plaintiff discovers the fraud (id. at 349-50). Although ERISA's statute of limitations is not a fraud-based statute, the principle that the plaintiff must have knowledge of the facts that give rise to the claim is relevant.

In this case, the Ninth Circuit's holding that Sulyma's "actual knowledge" of the underlying transaction is sufficient to bar his claim is inconsistent with these precedents. Sulyma's testimony that he was unaware of the investments in hedge funds and private equity, and that he did not recall seeing any documents that alerted him to this fact, creates a genuine dispute of material fact as to whether he had "actual knowledge" of the breach.

The judgment of the Ninth Circuit should be reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings to determine whether Sulyma had actual knowledge of the breach.