ARGUMENT

The conferral of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) under 8 U.S.C. § 1254a constitutes an "admission" into the United States under 8 U.S.C. § 1255. A grant of TPS renders an alien eligible for adjustment of status because it effectively treats the alien as having been "inspected and admitted or paroled" into the United States.

The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) defines "admission" and "admitted" as "the lawful entry of the alien into the United States after inspection and authorization by an immigration officer." 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(13)(A). However, the statute does not explicitly state that a grant of TPS is not an admission. In fact, the language of § 1254a(f)(4) suggests that a TPS recipient is considered to be in "lawful status as a nonimmigrant," which is tantamount to being "admitted" for purposes of § 1255.

The Supreme Court has long recognized that the immigration laws should be construed to achieve their remedial purpose. In United States ex rel. Knauff v. Shaughnessy, 338 U.S. 537 (1950), the Court noted that the admission of aliens is a matter of "executive discretion" and that the Attorney General has "wide latitude" in determining whether to admit an alien. Id. at 543-44. Similarly, in Shaughnessy v. United States ex rel. Mezei, 345 U.S. 206 (1953), the Court held that an alien's "exclusion" from the United States did not necessarily mean that they were not "admitted" for purposes of the immigration laws. Id. at 212-13.

In this case, the grant of TPS to Sanchez and Gonzalez effectively treated them as having been "admitted" into the United States. Under § 1254a(f)(4), they were considered to be in "lawful status as nonimmigrants," which is a status that is closely tied to the concept of "admission." As the Court noted in Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253 U.S. 454 (1920), the immigration laws should be construed to achieve their purpose of regulating the admission of aliens into the United States. Id. at 457.

Furthermore, the Court has recognized that the Attorney General has broad discretion to determine the status of aliens in the United States. In United States ex rel. Volpe v. Smith, 289 U.S. 422 (1933), the Court held that the Attorney General's decision to deport an alien was a matter of "executive discretion" and that the courts should not interfere with this discretion unless it was exercised in an arbitrary or capricious manner. Id. at 425-26. In this case, the grant of TPS to Sanchez and Gonzalez was a exercise of this discretion, and it effectively treated them as having been "admitted" into the United States.

In light of these precedents, it is clear that a grant of TPS under § 1254a constitutes an "admission" into the United States under § 1255. The language of the statute, combined with the relevant case law, supports the conclusion that Sanchez and Gonzalez are eligible for adjustment of status because they were effectively "admitted" into the United States when they received TPS.