The question presented is whether an employer's conduct must be "egregious" or "outrageous," independent of its state of mind, to sustain an award of punitive damages under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. The plain language of the statute, 42 U.S.C. § 1981a(b)(1), requires only that the employer engage in a discriminatory practice "with malice or with reckless indifference to the federally protected rights of an agles individual." 

The legislative history of the Civil Rights Act of 1991, which introduced punitive damages to Title VII, indicates that Congress intended to adopt the standard for punitive damages under 42 U.S.C. § 1981. Under § 1981, courts have long held that punitive damages are available when a defendant acts with a certain level of culpability, as discussed in  Philadelphia, W. & B.R. Co. v. Quigley, 62 U.S. 202 (1858), which addresses the concept of malice in the context of damages.

In the context of tort law, courts have long recognized that punitive damages serve to deter and punish egregious conduct. As noted in  Day v. Woodworth, 54 U.S. 363 (1852), exemplary damages are awarded to punish the defendant and serve as an example to others. The Supreme Court has also explained that the jury may give exemplary damages if the defendant's conduct is characterized by circumstances of aggravation or a bad motive, as seen in  Wilkes v. Wood, 98 Eng. Rep. 489 (K.B. 1763), and later echoed in American jurisprudence.

The Restatement of Torts, which reflects the common law as of 1939, provides that punitive damages are available when a defendant's conduct is "outrageous, because of ... evil motive or ... reckless indifference to the rights of others." Restatement of Torts § 908(2) (1939). This standard is consistent with the language of § 1981a(b)(1) and the principles established in cases such as  Louisville, N. A. & C. Ry. Co. v. Burke, 152 U.S. 544 (1894).

In the present case, the District Court erred in dismissing Kolstad's claim for punitive damages. The jury's finding of intentional discrimination, combined with evidence of the ADA's reckless indifference to Kolstad's federally protected rights, is sufficient to support an award of punitive damages. The Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit noted in Krodel v. Young, 748 F.2d 701 (D.C.Cir.1984), that an employer's preselection of a job candidate can be relevant to determining discriminatory intent. 

The ADA's conduct, including preselecting Spangler for the promotion and ignoring Kolstad's efforts to discuss the position, demonstrates a level of malice or reckless indifference that warrants consideration of punitive damages. The District Court should have allowed the jury to consider this claim, as the evidence presented at trial was sufficient to support a finding of punitive damages under the standard established by Congress in § 1981a(b)(1) and interpreted through cases like  Rood v. Wallace, 109 F. 924 (8th Cir. 1901).

In conclusion, the plain language of § 1981a(b)(1), combined with the legislative history and relevant case law, supports the conclusion that an employer's conduct does not need to be "egregious" or "outrageous," independent of its state of mind, to sustain an award of punitive damages under Title VII. The judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings on Kolstad's punitive damages claim.