The District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is a critical component of the predominance inquiry under Rule 23(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. As the Supreme Court has long recognized, a class action is only maintainable if the questions of law or fact common to the members of the class predominate over any questions affecting only individual members, as stated in Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U.S. 32 (1940). The Court in Hansberry noted that the class action device is only available when there is a common question that can be resolved on a class-wide basis.

In this case, the District Court certified the class despite the lack of a reliable methodology for measuring damages on a class-wide basis. The Court relied on the expert testimony of Dr. James McClave, but his models and analyses were not sufficient to establish that damages could be quantified on a class-wide basis. As the Court has long held, findings of fact by a trial court sitting without a jury are binding on an appellate court unless they are clearly erroneous, as seen in United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 338 U.S. 338 (1949). However, in this case, the District Court's finding that damages could be measured on a class-wide basis was not supported by sufficient evidence.

The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is rooted in the need for a fair and efficient adjudication of the controversy. The Court in Pentland v. Dravo Corp., 152 F.2d 851 (3d Cir. 1945), noted that a class action is not maintainable if the questions affecting individual members predominate. Similarly, in Weeks v. Bareco Oil Co., 125 F.2d 84 (7th Cir. 1941), the court held that a class action is only maintainable if the questions of law or fact common to the members of the class predominate.

Furthermore, the District Court's certification of the class without adequate evidence on damages is inconsistent with the principles enunciated in Kainz v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 194 F.2d 737 (7th Cir. 1952), where the court held that a district court's decision to certify a class is subject to review for abuse of discretion. In this case, the District Court's certification of the class without adequate evidence on damages was an abuse of discretion.

In light of the foregoing, it is clear that the District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The decision should be reversed, and the case should be remanded for further proceedings. The principle that a district court must conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and arguments in making the class certification decision, as stated in cases such as Cherner v. Transamerica Corp., 18 F.R.D. 94 (D. Del. 1955), was not followed by the District Court. The Court should have scrutinized the evidence presented by the plaintiffs more closely to ensure that it met the requirements of Rule 23(b)(3). 

In conclusion, the District Court's certification of the class was in error, and the decision should be reversed. The Court's failure to require adequate evidence on damages and its failure to conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and arguments presented by the plaintiffs render the certification decision flawed.