The District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is a critical component of the predominance inquiry under Rule 23(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. As the Supreme Court has long recognized, a class action is only maintainable if "the questions of law or fact common to the members of the class predominate over any questions affecting only individual members." Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b)(3); see also Pentland v. Dravo Corp., 152 F.2d 851, 856 (3d Cir. 1945) (noting that a class action is not maintainable if "the questions affecting individual members... predominate").

In this case, the District Court certified the class despite the lack of a reliable methodology for measuring damages on a class-wide basis of the class. The Court relied on the expert testimony of Dr. James McClave, but his models and analyses were not sufficient to establish that damages could be quantified on a class-wide basis. As the Court has long held, a trial court's findings of fact are binding on an appellate court unless they are clearly erroneous, a principle established in cases such as Equity Corp. v. Milton, 221 F. 788, 790 (2d Cir. 1915). However, in this case, the District Court's finding that damages could be measured on a class-wide basis was not supported by sufficient evidence.

The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is rooted in the need for a fair and efficient adjudication of the controversy. As noted in cases such as Matthies v. Seymour Mfg. Co., 23 F.R.D. 64, 83 (D. Conn. 1958), a district court's decision to certify a class is subject to review for abuse of discretion. In this case, the District Court's certification of the class without adequate evidence on damages was an abuse of discretion.

Furthermore, the District Court's certification of the class without adequate evidence on damages is inconsistent with the principles enunciated in cases such as Smith v. Swormstedt, 57 U.S. 288, 303 (1853), where the court held that a class action is maintainable when there is a "community of interest" among the members of the class. Conversely, a class action is not maintainable if the individual issues outweigh the common issues. See also Weeks v. Bareco Oil Co.'s analogous case, Smith v. Swormstedt, 57 U.S. 288, 303 (1853).

The Court has also recognized that a district court must conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and arguments in making the class certification decision. This principle is supported by cases such as Matthies v. Seymour Mfg. Co., 23 F.R.D. 64, 83 (D. Conn. 1958).

In conclusion, the District Court's certification of the class was in error, and the decision should be reversed. The Court's failure to require adequate evidence on damages and its failure to conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and arguments presented by the plaintiffs render the certification decision flawed.