**ARGUMENT**

I. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN PERMITTING EVIDENCE OF SUBSEQUENT REMEDIAL MEASURES FOR IMPEACHMENT PURPOSES.

Rule 407 of the Federal Rules of Evidence provides that evidence of subsequent remedial measures is not admissible to prove negligence or culpable conduct. *See* Fed. R. Evid. 407. The Advisory Committee’s Note to Rule 407 explains that the rule is designed to encourage remedial measures by preventing their use as evidence of prior negligence. *See* Advisory Committee’s Note to Fed. R. Evid. 407. This Court has recognized that Rule 407 serves a strong public policy purpose by removing the disincentive to make safety improvements. *See* *Flamm v. S. Bell Tel. & Tel. Co.*, 370 F.2d 442, 445 (5th Cir. 1967) (citing *Tanner v. United States*, 41 F.2d 104 (5th Cir. 1930)).

The district court permitted evidence of subsequent remedial measures—specifically, the lengthening of the infeed chute—solely for impeachment purposes. However, the court’s ruling was erroneous because it allowed the admission of such evidence despite its prejudicial effect. As this Court has held, even when evidence is admitted for a limited purpose, its admission may still constitute reversible error if the evidence is so prejudicial that it outweighs its probative value. *See* *United States v. Kaplan*, 88 F.2d 806, 810 (2d Cir. 1937) (L. Hand, J.) (holding that evidence admitted for a limited purpose may still be reversible error if its prejudicial effect is too great).

Moreover, the district court’s ruling was inconsistent with the purpose of Rule 407. The Advisory Committee’s Note to Rule 407 emphasizes that the rule is designed to prevent the use of subsequent remedial measures as evidence of prior negligence. *See* Advisory Committee’s Note to Fed. R. Evid. 407. By permitting the admission of such evidence for impeachment, the district court undermined this policy goal. As the Supreme Court has recognized, evidentiary rules must be interpreted in a manner that furthers their underlying policy objectives. *See* *Wolfle v. United States*, 291 U.S. 7, 12 (1934) (holding that evidentiary rules must be interpreted in light of their purpose and object).

II. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN DENYING WOOD’S MOTION FOR A NEW TRIAL.

The district court’s erroneous admission of evidence of subsequent remedial measures prejudiced Wood’s case. The jury was improperly exposed to evidence that the infeed chute had been lengthened after the accident, which could have led the jury to infer that the original design was defective. As this Court has held, the admission of irrelevant or prejudicial evidence may constitute reversible error. *See* *United States v. Ross*, 33 F.2d 1007, 1010 (2d Cir. 1929) (L. Hand, J.) (holding that the admission of irrelevant evidence may constitute reversible error).

Furthermore, the district court’s admonition to the jury to disregard the testimony concerning subsequent remedial measures was insufficient to cure the prejudice. As the Supreme Court has recognized, a curative instruction is not always sufficient to remedy the harm caused by the admission of improper evidence. *See* *Shepard v. United States*, 290 U.S. 96, 104 (1933) (holding that a curative instruction may not be sufficient to remedy the harm caused by the admission of improper evidence). In this case, the prejudice was too great to be cured by a simple admonition to the jury.

For these reasons, the district court’s erroneous admission of evidence of subsequent remedial measures and its denial of Wood’s motion for a new trial must be reversed.