**ARGUMENT**

I. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN HOLDING THAT PAKISTAN’S EXPROPRIATION OF BEG’S PROPERTY DID NOT FALL WITHIN THE COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY EXCEPTION TO THE FOREIGN SOVEREIGN IMMUNITIES ACT.

The Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (“FSIA”) confers immunity upon foreign states from the jurisdiction of United States courts, subject to enumerated exceptions. 28 U.S.C. § 1604. One such exception, at issue here, applies where the action is based upon a commercial activity carried on in the United States by the foreign state. 28 U.S.C. § 1605(a)(2). The district court erred in concluding that Pakistan’s expropriation of Beg’s property did not constitute commercial activity.

This Court has recognized that the commercial activity exception encompasses actions taken by a foreign state in the exercise of its sovereign authority where those actions are of a type that a private person could undertake. *Republic of Argentina v. Weltover, Inc.*, 504 U.S. 607 (1992) (citing *Alfred Dunhill of London, Inc. v. Republic of Cuba*, 425 U.S. 682 (1976)). However, the Supreme Court has also made clear that the nature of the act, rather than the motive behind it, determines whether it is commercial. *Id.* at 612 (citing *W. S. Kirkpatrick & Co. v. Environmental Tectonics Corp.*, 493 U.S. 400 (1990)). Thus, even acts undertaken for sovereign purposes may fall within the exception if they are of a commercial nature.

The expropriation of property by a foreign state for public use is a quintessential commercial act. In *United States v. Certain Parcels of Land*, 207 F. Supp. 810 (D. Md. 1962), the district court held that the taking of land by a foreign government for public purposes constituted a commercial activity under the predecessor to the FSIA. The court reasoned that the act of acquiring and disposing of property is inherently commercial, regardless of the sovereign’s motive. *Id.* at 815. Similarly, in *Republic of Iraq v. First Nat. City Bank*, 189 F. Supp. 657 (S.D.N.Y. 1960), the court found that the nationalization of assets by a foreign state constituted commercial activity because it involved the state acting as a private party would in managing its property. *Id.* at 660.

Here, Pakistan’s expropriation of Beg’s property and subsequent transfer to the military for housing purposes was a commercial act. The government acted as a property owner disposing of its assets, a role that any private party could perform. The fact that the property was used for military housing does not alter the commercial nature of the transaction. *See Republic of Iraq v. First Nat. City Bank*, 189 F. Supp. at 660. Thus, the district court erred in concluding that the commercial activity exception did not apply.

II. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN HOLDING THAT THE ACTION DID NOT HAVE A DIRECT EFFECT IN THE UNITED STATES.

Even if the expropriation itself were not commercial, the FSIA’s commercial activity exception also applies where the action causes a direct effect in the United States. 28 U.S.C. § 1605(a)(2). The district court erred in finding that Beg failed to allege a direct effect in the United States.

The Supreme Court has held that a direct effect occurs where the action has a “substantial, immediate, and foreseeable effect” within the United States. *Republic of Argentina v. Weltover, Inc.*, 504 U.S. at 618 (citing *Texas Trading & Milling Corp. v. Federal Republic of Nigeria*, 647 F.2d 300 (2d Cir. 1981)). In *Texas Trading*, the Second Circuit found that a direct effect occurred where the foreign state’s breach of contract caused a loss of funds in the United States. 647 F.2d at 308. Similarly, in *Republic of Iraq v. First Nat. City Bank*, 189 F. Supp. at 661, the court held that the freezing of assets in New York banks constituted a direct effect in the United States.

Here, Beg’s complaint alleges that his property was valued at $10 million, a sum that, if paid as compensation, would have been transferred to the United States. The deprivation of this property thus had a direct effect in the United States, as it deprived Beg of assets located here. *See Texas Trading*, 647 F.2d at 308. The district court’s contrary conclusion was erroneous.

III. CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, the district court erred in dismissing Beg’s complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The expropriation of Beg’s property constituted commercial activity, and the action had a direct effect in the United States. The judgment of the district court should be reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings.