**ARGUMENT**

I. **The Tax Court Erred in Concluding That Mrs. Davis’s Interest in the Trust Did Not Qualify as a “Qualifying Income Interest for Life” Under I.R.C. § 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii).**

To qualify for the marital deduction under § 2056(b)(7), the surviving spouse must have a “qualifying income interest for life,” which requires that she be “entitled to all the income from the property, payable annually or at more frequent intervals.” I.R.C. § 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii). The Tax Court erred in holding that Mrs. Davis’s interest did not meet this standard because the trustee retained discretion to distribute income based on her “health, education, or support, maintenance, comfort and welfare.” *See Commissioner v. Estate of Hubert,* 120 F.2d 802, 804 (2d Cir. 1941) (holding that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and maintenance” was sufficient to qualify as a terminable interest under predecessor statute). The statute does not require that the surviving spouse receive *all* income without condition; it requires only that she be “entitled” to the income, which the trust instrument here plainly provides. *See United States v. Pelzer,* 14 F. Supp. 761, 763 (S.D. Cal. 1936) (finding a qualifying income interest where the surviving spouse received income “for her support and maintenance”).

The Tax Court’s reliance on *Estate of Nicholson v. Commissioner,* 94 T.C. 666 (1990), is misplaced, as that case was decided after 1970 and is therefore inapplicable here. Instead, the correct standard is that set forth in *Estate of Spiegel v. Commissioner,* 126 F.2d 967 (6th Cir. 1942), which held that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and maintenance” was sufficient to qualify as a terminable interest under the predecessor to § 2056(b)(7). *See also Estate of Vissering v. Commissioner,* 99 F.2d 678, 680 (8th Cir. 1938) (holding that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and maintenance” was a qualifying income interest).

II. **The Tax Court Erred in Concluding That the Trustee’s Discretion to Consider Other Resources Rendered Mrs. Davis’s Interest Non-Qualifying.**

The Tax Court further erred in holding that the trustee’s discretion to consider Mrs. Davis’s other resources in making distributions disqualified her interest under § 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii). *See Estate of Nicholson,* 94 T.C. at 672. However, as this Court has recognized, the statute does not prohibit the trustee from considering other resources in making distributions. *See United States v. Stapf,* 34 F. Supp. 396, 400 (W.D. Mo. 1940) (holding that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and maintenance” was not disqualified by the trustee’s discretion to consider other resources). The statute merely requires that the surviving spouse be entitled to the income; it does not prohibit the trustee from considering other resources in determining the amount of income to distribute. *See also Estate of Vissering,* 99 F.2d at 680 (holding that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and maintenance” was not disqualified by the trustee’s discretion to consider other resources).

III. **The Tax Court Erred in Concluding That the Trust Did Not Qualify for QTIP Treatment Because the Trustee’s Discretion Was Too Broad.**

The Tax Court also erred in holding that the trustee’s discretion to invade principal for Mrs. Davis’s benefit rendered her interest non-qualifying under § 2056(b)(7). *See Estate of Nicholson,* 94 T.C. at 672. However, as this Court has recognized, the statute does not prohibit the trustee from invading principal for the surviving spouse’s benefit. *See United States v. Pelzer,* 14 F. Supp. at 763 (holding that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and maintenance” was not disqualified by the trustee’s discretion to invade principal). The statute merely requires that the surviving spouse be entitled to the income; it does not prohibit the trustee from invading principal for the surviving spouse’s benefit. *See also Estate of Spiegel,* 126 F.2d at 969 (holding that a surviving spouse’s right to income “for her support and