The First Amendment forbids a state from excluding speech from publicly owned property on the basis of its content. In Hague v. CIO, 307 U.S. 496 (1939), the Court held that streets and parks “have immemorially been held in trust for the use of the public and, time out of mind, have been used for purposes of assembly, communicating thoughts between citizens, and discussing public questions.” Id. at 515. Once government opens property for expressive activity, it may not condition access on the speaker’s viewpoint. Niemotko v. Maryland, 340 U.S. 268 (1951), invalidated the denial of a permit for a religious meeting in a public park when other groups had been allowed to use the same space; the Court explained that “the right to equal protection of the laws in the exercise of those freedoms” precludes “arbitrary or discriminatory” refusals. Id. at 272. Fowler v. Rhode Island, 345 U.S. 67 (1953), reached the same result when a city permitted religious services by some denominations but barred Jehovah’s Witnesses from conducting theirs in a public park. The Court held that “it is no business of courts to say that what is a religious practice or activity for one group is not religion under the protection of the First Amendment.” Id. at 70.

The same principle applies when a school district opens its facilities after hours to community groups. In those circumstances the property functions as a limited public forum, and the state may not close it to speakers whose message it disfavors. See Kunz v. New York, 340 U.S. 290 (1951) (striking down a permit system that allowed officials to withhold permission for religious addresses on public streets). A rule that bars “religious purposes” while permitting lectures, films, and performances on every other subject necessarily discriminates on the basis of content. Such a classification cannot survive the command of the First Amendment that “the state has no power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its subject matter, or its content.” Terminiello v. Chicago, 337 U.S. 1, 4 (1949).

The District’s refusal to allow Lamb’s Chapel to exhibit films on family life from a religious perspective therefore violates the freedom of speech. The judgment of the court of appeals should be reversed.