ARGUMENT

I. Milford's exclusion of the Good News Club constituted permissible subject-matter discrimination in a limited public forum.

A school district may "preserve the property under its control for the use to which it is lawfully dedicated." *Perry Educ. Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n*, 460 U.S. 37, 46 (1983). When Milford opened its facilities after hours to district residents for "social, civic and recreational meetings" and other uses "pertaining to the welfare of the community," it created a limited public forum. *Rosenberger v. Rector & Visitors of Univ. of Va.*, 515 U.S. 819, 829 (1995). In such a forum, restrictions must be "reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum" and "viewpoint neutral." *Id.* at 829.

Milford's community-use policy expressly prohibited religious purposes. The Club's proposed meetings consisted of prayer, memorization of scripture, Bible lessons, and invitations to accept Jesus Christ as personal savior. These activities constituted religious instruction and worship, not the teaching of morals from a religious viewpoint. *See Widmar v. Vincent*, 454 U.S. 263, 269 n.6 (1981) (distinguishing worship from protected speech). Milford had permitted other groups addressing youth development, but none engaged in equivalent religious instruction. Because the Club sought access for a different subject matter, the exclusion was content-based discrimination that did not transgress the First Amendment. *Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Def. & Educ. Fund, Inc.*, 473 U.S. 788, 806 (1985).

II. Any free-speech violation was justified by Milford's compelling interest in avoiding an Establishment Clause violation.

Even assuming the exclusion implicated protected speech, Milford possessed a compelling interest in complying with the Establishment Clause. *See Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free Sch. Dist.*, 508 U.S. 384, 394 (1993). Permitting the Club's meetings would have placed Milford in the position of endorsing religious activity on school property immediately after the school day, when elementary students remained on campus. The resulting perception of official sponsorship would have violated the prohibition against government endorsement of religion. *See County of Allegheny v. ACLU*, 492 U.S. 573, 592-93 (1989). Milford therefore acted to avoid an impermissible establishment of religion, rendering its decision narrowly tailored to a compelling governmental interest.