ARGUMENT

I. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON ERDMAN'S FMLA CLAIM BECAUSE THERE IS A GENUINE ISSUE OF MATERIAL FACT REGARDING WHETHER ERDMAN ACCUMULATED 1,250 HOURS OF SERVICE IN THE 12-MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING HER REQUEST FOR FMLA LEAVE.

The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) entitles eligible employees to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave per year for certain family and medical reasons. 29 U.S.C. § 2612(a)(1). To be eligible, an employee must have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12-month period immediately preceding the leave. 29 U.S.C. § 2611(2)(A)(ii). The District Court granted summary judgment in favor of Nationwide, finding that Erdman did not accumulate the required 1,250 hours. However, this determination was based on an incomplete record and ignored disputed facts.

The record shows that Erdman regularly worked extra hours outside the office, which were often authorized by her supervisors, Patty Sarno and Stella Getgen, as "comp" time. Although Getgen later claimed that she first heard the phrase "comp" time in January 2003, Erdman's email to Getgen in September 2002 requesting clarification on working extra hours suggests that Erdman was still working extra hours with the understanding that they would be used as "comp" time. See McTernan v. City of York, 564 F.3d 636, 646 (3d Cir. 2009) (requiring courts to view facts in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party on summary judgment).

The Supreme Court has held that the FMLA's 1,250-hour requirement is a threshold issue that must be met before an employee can assert an FMLA claim. See Ragsdale v. Wolverine World Wide, Inc., 535 U.S. 81, 89 (2002). However, the Court has also emphasized that the determination of whether an employee has met this threshold is a factual inquiry. See id. at 90. Here, the District Court erred by resolving this factual dispute on summary judgment.

Nationwide's own records are inconsistent, and Erdman's testimony suggests that she worked more hours than Nationwide acknowledges. For example, Erdman's supervisor, Sarno, consistently authorized payment for Erdman's extra hours or allowed her to use them as "comp" time. Moreover, Getgen's concession that Erdman's vacation time calculation was correct after Erdman explained that she had used "comp" time suggests that Erdman had indeed worked extra hours.

In light of these disputed facts, the District Court's grant of summary judgment was improper. See Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248 (1986) (holding that summary judgment is only appropriate if there are no genuine issues of material fact). This Court should reverse the District Court's grant of summary judgment on Erdman's FMLA claim and remand for further proceedings to determine whether Erdman accumulated the required 1,250 hours.

Because the District Court's error requires reversal, we need not address Erdman's additional arguments regarding pretext and retaliation at this juncture. On remand, the District Court should consider these issues in light of the correct determination of Erdman's eligibility under the FMLA.