The Tax Court erred in denying the Davis estate a marital deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 2056(b)(7) for the trust income passing to Evelyn L. Davis. To qualify for a QTIP deduction, the surviving spouse must have a "qualifying income interest for life," meaning they are "entitled to all the income from the property, payable annually or at more frequent intervals." I.R.C. § 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii). The Amendment to the Declaration of Trust satisfies this requirement.

The trust instrument provides that the trustee "shall pay to or apply for the benefit of the surviving spouse, in quarter annual or more frequent installments, all of the net income from the trust estate as the trustee, in the trustee's reasonable discretion, shall determine to be proper for the health, education, or support, maintenance, comfort and welfare of grantor's surviving spouse in accordance with the surviving spouse's accustomed manner of living." Although the trustee has discretion to determine the amount of income to be distributed, this discretion is not unfettered. The trustee must distribute "all of the net income" and consider the surviving spouse's "accustomed manner of living." This language ensures that Mrs. Davis will receive all the income necessary for her support and maintenance.

The court's decision in Estate of Howard v. Commissioner, 91 T.C. 329 (1988), aff'd, 910 F.2d 633 (9th Cir. 1990), is instructive. In Estate of Howard, the court held that a trust qualified for a QTIP deduction where the trustee had discretion to distribute income, but was required to consider the surviving spouse's "needs, standard of living, and comfort." Id. at 335. Similarly, in this case, the trustee must consider Mrs. Davis's "accustomed manner of living" when making distributions. This requirement ensures that Mrs. Davis will receive all the income to which she is entitled.

Furthermore, the fact that the trustee has discretion to "apply" income for Mrs. Davis's benefit, rather than simply distributing it to her, does not disqualify the trust from QTIP treatment. The Treasury Regulations provide that a surviving spouse has a qualifying income interest for life if they are "entitled to all the income from the property," regardless of whether the income is actually distributed to them. Treas. Reg. § 20.2056(b)-7(d)(2). See also Estate of Kyle v. Commissioner, 94 T.C. 829, 839 (1990) (holding that a trust qualified for QTIP treatment where the trustee had discretion to distribute income, but was required to distribute "all the income").

The Commissioner argues that the trust does not qualify for a QTIP deduction because the trustee has too much discretion in determining the amount of income to be distributed. However, as the court noted in Estate of Spencer v. Commissioner, T.C. Memo 1997-448, "the fact that a trustee has some discretion in determining the amount of income to be distributed does not necessarily mean that the surviving spouse is not entitled to all the income." The key factor is whether the trustee's discretion is limited by an ascertainable standard, such as the surviving spouse's "accustomed manner of living." In this case, the trustee's discretion is so limited, and therefore the trust qualifies for a QTIP deduction under section 2056(b)(7).

In conclusion, the terms of the Amendment to the Declaration of Trust satisfy the requirements for a QTIP deduction under section 2056(b)(7). The trustee's discretion to determine the amount of income to be distributed is limited by an ascertainable standard, and Mrs. Davis is entitled to all the income necessary for her support and maintenance. Therefore, the Tax Court erred in denying the Davis estate a marital deduction for the trust income passing to Mrs. Davis.