The district court erred in entering judgment against Sieben, doing business as Plaza Motors Company, Inc. (Sieben), on Judith Feltmann's claims of sex discrimination and retaliatory discharge under Title VII and the MHRA. The court's finding that Sieben discriminated against Feltmann is not supported by the evidence.

First, Feltmann failed to establish a prima facie case of sex discrimination. To do so, she must show that (1) she is a member of a protected class, (2) she was qualified for her position, (3) she suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) the circumstances give rise to an inference of discrimination. See Texas Dep't of Cmty. Affairs v. Burdine, 450 U.S. 248, 253 (1981). Feltmann was not meeting Sieben's legitimate expectations, as evidenced by her low average gross profit for December 1992 and January through April 1993. See id. at 253 n.6 (noting that a plaintiff must show she was "qualified" for the position, which includes meeting the employer's legitimate expectations).

Moreover, even if Feltmann had established a prima facie case, Sieben articulated legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its actions. Rich's memos to Feltmann regarding her "work ethic" and use of the demo car were based on her failure to follow company policies and her poor sales performance. See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U.S. 792, 802 (1973) (noting that an employer must articulate a "legitimate, non-discriminatory reason" for its actions). Feltmann failed to show that these reasons were pretextual. See St. Mary's Honor Ctr. v. Hicks, 509 U.S. 502, 515 (1993) (holding that a plaintiff must show that the employer's proffered reason is "unworthy of credence").

Feltmann's retaliation claim also fails. To establish a prima facie case of retaliation, Feltmann must show that (1) she engaged in protected activity, (2) she suffered an adverse employment action, and (3) there is a causal connection between the two. See Evans v. Kansas City, Mo. Sch. Dist., 65 F.3d 98, 100 (8th Cir. 1995). Feltmann's complaint about Anzalone's comment was investigated and addressed by Sieben's management. The owners reprimanded Anzalone and warned him that future incidents would result in termination. Feltmann never heard of any other vulgar comments about her, and there is no evidence that Sieben's actions were motivated by a desire to retaliate against her. See id. at 101 (noting that a causal connection is required between the protected activity and the adverse employment action).

The district court's judgment should be reversed, as Feltmann failed to establish a prima facie case of sex discrimination or retaliation, and Sieben articulated legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its actions.