I. The District Court Erred in Denying Riddle's Petition for Writ of Habeas Corpus Without Conducting an Evidentiary Hearing.

The district court's denial of Riddle's petition for writ of habeas corpus without conducting an evidentiary hearing was improper. Under 28 U.S.C. § 2254(e)(2), a federal habeas court shall not hold an evidentiary hearing unless the applicant has failed to develop the factual basis of a claim in state court proceedings, and the claim relies on a new rule of constitutional law or a factual predicate that could not have been previously discovered through the exercise of due diligence. However, the Supreme Court has held that a district court has discretion to hold an evidentiary hearing when a habeas petitioner has made a "good-faith allegation that would, if true, entitle him to relief." Townsend v. Sain, 372 U.S. 293, 312 (1963), overruled in part on other grounds by Keeney v. Tamayo-Reyes, 504 U.S. 1 (1992). Riddle's allegations regarding the prosecutor's improper testimony and the alleged bias it created raise a factual dispute that warrants an evidentiary hearing.

II. The Prosecutor's Testimony and Continued Prosecution of the Case Violated Riddle's Due Process Rights.

The prosecutor, Danny Hill, testified as a witness and subsequently continued to prosecute the case, which raises concerns about his impartiality. The Supreme Court has held that a prosecutor's role is not only to seek convictions but also to ensure that justice is served. Berger v. United States, 295 U.S. 78, 88 (1935). When a prosecutor testifies as a witness, it can create an appearance of impropriety and potentially bias the trial. See Young v. United States ex rel. Vuitton et Fils S.A., 481 U.S. 787, 814 (1987) (Blackmun, J., dissenting). The Fifth Circuit has also recognized that a prosecutor's testimony can be problematic. See United States v. Johnston, 690 F.2d 638, 643-44 (5th Cir. 1982) (en banc). The district court erred in granting summary judgment without considering the potential impact of Hill's testimony on the trial.

III. The District Court Erred in Granting Summary Judgment Against Riddle.

The district court's grant of summary judgment against Riddle was improper because there are genuine issues of material fact in dispute. Under Rule 56(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, summary judgment is only appropriate when there is no genuine issue as to any material fact. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322 (1986). Riddle's allegations regarding the prosecutor's testimony and the alleged bias it created raise a factual dispute that precludes summary judgment. The district court should have considered the evidence in the light most favorable to Riddle and allowed the case to proceed to an evidentiary hearing.

For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the district court should be reversed, and the case should be remanded for an evidentiary hearing.