ARGUMENT

I. The District Court Erred in Finding that Gonzalez-Caballero Consented to the Removal and Retention of Danelsy

The Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, as implemented by the International Child Abduction Remedies Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11601-11610, requires the return of a child to their country of habitual residence if the child was wrongfully removed or retained. A removal or retention is considered wrongful if it was in breach of the petitioner's rights of custody under the law of the country in which the child was habitually resident. See Hague Convention, art. 3. However, a respondent may defend against a petition for return by establishing that the petitioner consented to the removal or retention. See Hague Convention, art. 13a.

The district court found that Gonzalez-Caballero consented to Mena's removal and retention of Danelsy. However, this finding is clearly erroneous. While Gonzalez-Caballero's testimony is inconsistent, it is clear that she did not unequivocally consent to Mena's permanent removal of Danelsy. At most, she agreed to allow Mena to take Danelsy to the United States temporarily, either for two weeks or until she could join Danelsy after arranging her immigration. See Friedrich v. Friedrich, 78 F.3d 1060, 1066 (6th Cir. 1996) ("The consent defense involves the petitioner's conduct prior to the contested removal or retention.").

The fact that Gonzalez-Caballero gave Mena Danelsy's legal documents, including her United States passport, does not necessarily establish consent to permanent removal. See Wanninger v. Wanninger, 850 F. Supp. 78, 81 (D. Mass. 1994) (finding that the petitioner's acquiescence to the respondent's taking of the child to the United States for a visit did not constitute consent to retention). Moreover, Gonzalez-Caballero's prompt actions to contact Panamanian authorities and seek assistance in recovering Danelsy after Mena failed to call her upon his arrival in the United States demonstrate that she did not consent to Danelsy's retention.

The district court's finding of consent is also undermined by the fact that Mena's testimony is not entirely credible. Mena's claim that Gonzalez-Caballero told him she could no longer care for Danelsy is not corroborated by any other evidence, and Gonzalez-Caballero denies making such a statement. See Rydder v. Rydder, 49 F.3d 369, 373 (8th Cir. 1995) (noting that the district court's finding of consent was not supported by credible evidence).

In light of the evidence, the district court's finding that Gonzalez-Caballero consented to Mena's removal and retention of Danelsy is clearly erroneous. The court should have considered the totality of the circumstances, including Gonzalez-Caballero's inconsistent testimony, Mena's credibility, and the prompt actions taken by Gonzalez-Caballero to seek Danelsy's return.

II. The District Court's Denial of Gonzalez-Caballero's Petition Should Be Reversed

Given the clear error in the district court's finding of consent, this Court should reverse the denial of Gonzalez-Caballero's petition and order the return of Danelsy to her custody in Panama. The Hague Convention's purpose is to ensure the prompt return of children wrongfully removed or retained, and to deter such removals and retentions. See Hague Convention, art. 1. By reversing the district court's decision, this Court will uphold the Convention's purpose and ensure that Danelsy is returned to her habitual residence.

For the foregoing reasons, this Court should reverse the district court's denial of Gonzalez-Caballero's petition and order the return of Danelsy to her custody in Panama.