Argument

The Tax Court erred in denying the Davis estate a marital deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 2056(b)(7) for the trust created by Ralph H. Davis. To qualify for a marital deduction under section 2056(b)(7), the trust must meet three requirements: (I) the property must pass from the decedent; (II) the surviving spouse must have a qualifying income interest for life; and (III) an election under section 2056(b)(7) must apply. I.R.C. § 2056(b)(7)(B)(i). The parties agree that the first and third requirements are met. The issue on appeal is whether Evelyn L. Davis, the surviving spouse, has a "qualifying income interest for life" in the trust.

A surviving spouse has a "qualifying income interest for life" if she is "entitled to all the income from the property, payable annually or at more frequent intervals" and "no person has a power to appoint any part of the property to any person other than the surviving spouse." I.R.C. § 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii). The Amendment to the Declaration of Trust satisfies the first prong of this test. The trust provides that the trustee "shall pay to or apply for the benefit of the surviving spouse, in quarter annual or more frequent installments, all of the net income from the trust estate as the trustee, in the trustee's reasonable discretion, shall determine to be proper for the health, education, or support, maintenance, comfort and welfare of grantor's surviving spouse in accordance with the surviving spouse's accustomed manner of living." Although the trustee has discretion to determine the amount of income to be distributed, the trust requires the trustee to distribute "all of the net income" to the surviving spouse, thereby entitling her to all the income. See Estate of Howard v. Commissioner, 91 T.C. 329, 335 (1988) (holding that a trust that required the trustee to distribute "all the net income" to the surviving spouse satisfied the first prong of section 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii)).

The second prong of the test is also met because no person has the power to appoint any part of the property to anyone other than Evelyn L. Davis during her lifetime. The trustee's discretion to invade the principal is limited to distributions for Mrs. Davis's benefit, and the trust does not grant anyone the power to appoint the property to another person. See Estate of Clayton v. Commissioner, 976 F.2d 1486, 1498-99 (5th Cir. 1992) (holding that a trust that granted the trustee discretion to invade the principal for the surviving spouse's benefit did not violate the second prong of section 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii)).

The Commissioner's argument that the trust does not qualify for a marital deduction because the trustee has discretion to determine the amount of income to be distributed is unpersuasive. The trust's language, which requires the distribution of "all of the net income," is sufficient to satisfy the first prong of section 2056(b)(7)(B)(ii). See Estate of Howard, 91 T.C. at 335. The trustee's discretion is limited to determining what is "proper" for Mrs. Davis's "health, education, or support, maintenance, comfort and welfare," which does not give the trustee the power to withhold income entirely. Therefore, the Davis estate is entitled to a marital deduction under section 2056(b)(7) for the trust created by Ralph H. Davis.