The district court erred in granting summary judgment to Verizon on Moll's hostile work environment claim. The court improperly limited its consideration to only those allegations that were "sexually offensive" in nature, dismissing the claim because none of these incidents occurred within the applicable statute of limitations. However, as this Court has held, a sex-based hostile work environment claim may be supported by a wide range of conduct, including facially sex-neutral incidents. Alfano v. Costello, 294 F.3d 365, 375 (2d Cir. 2002). The district court should have considered all allegations in the Complaint in their totality, including those that were not overtly sexual in nature.

The record reveals a pattern of disparate treatment and harassment that Moll endured during her employment with Verizon. For example, Moll was subjected to unequal terms and conditions of employment, such as being denied the ability to work from home, while her male colleagues were permitted to do so. See J.A. 67. This Court has recognized that such facially sex-neutral incidents can be considered as part of a hostile work environment claim when viewed in the context of other discriminatory conduct. See Howley v. Town of Stratford, 217 F.3d 141, 154-55 (2d Cir. 2000) (holding that a hostile work environment claim can be supported by a range of conduct, including sex-neutral incidents).

Moreover, the district court's narrow focus on "sexually offensive" acts ignored the broader context of Moll's allegations, which included claims of sex-based disparate treatment and retaliation. See Cruz v. Coach Stores, Inc., 202 F.3d 560, 570 (2d Cir. 2000) (holding that a plaintiff can establish a hostile work environment claim by showing that the workplace was permeated with discriminatory intimidation, ridicule, and insult). The record contains evidence of a pervasive and hostile work environment that was not limited to overtly sexual conduct.

The district court also erred in applying the "sham issue of fact" doctrine to disregard the subsequent testimony of non-party witnesses that conflicted with their prior statements. As this Court has held, the "sham issue of fact" doctrine does not apply to non-party witnesses. See In re Fosamax Prods. Liab. Litig., 707 F.3d 164, 178 (2d Cir. 2013) (citing Rule v. Brine, Inc., 85 F.3d 1002, 1011 (2d Cir. 1996)). The court should have considered the subsequent testimony of these witnesses in determining whether a genuine issue of material fact existed.

Furthermore, the district court's grant of summary judgment on Moll's retaliation claim was also improper. Moll alleged that Verizon retaliated against her for filing a complaint with the EEOC and for pursuing her lawsuit. The record contains evidence that Verizon took adverse employment actions against Moll, including transferring her to the Syracuse office and imposing restrictive working conditions. See Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. White, 548 U.S. 53, 68 (2006) (holding that a retaliation claim can be established by showing that the employer took a materially adverse action against the employee). This Court has recognized that a retaliation claim can be supported by a showing that the employer's actions would have dissuaded a reasonable employee from making or supporting a charge of discrimination. See Kessler v. Westchester Cnty. Dep't of Soc. Servs., 461 F.3d 199, 207-08 (2d Cir. 2006).

Moll's disparate treatment and equal pay claims also survive summary judgment. The record contains evidence that Moll was paid less than her male colleagues for equal work, in violation of the Equal Pay Act. See 29 U.S.C. § 206(d); see also Belfi v. Prendergast, 191 F.3d 129, 135 (2d Cir. 1999) (holding that a plaintiff can establish a prima facie case under the EPA by showing that she was paid less than a male colleague for equal work). Additionally, Moll alleged that she was subjected to sex-based disparate treatment, including being denied promotions and being treated unequally in terms of working conditions. See Feingold v. New York, 366 F.3d 138, 152 (2d Cir. 2004) (holding that a plaintiff can establish a prima facie case of disparate treatment by showing that she was treated less favorably than a similarly situated male colleague).

In sum, the district court erred in granting summary judgment to Verizon on Moll's hostile work environment, retaliation, disparate treatment, and equal pay claims. The record contains evidence of a pervasive and hostile work environment, retaliation, and sex-based disparate treatment. This Court should vacate the judgment of the district court and remand for further proceedings. See Terry v. Ashcroft, 336 F.3d 128, 144-45 (2d Cir. 2003) (vacating summary judgment and remanding for further proceedings).