## Argument

The district court erred in granting summary judgment to BNSF Railway Company on the appellants' retaliation claims under the Federal Railroad Safety Act (FRSA), 49 U.S.C. § 20109. To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FRSA, the appellants must show that (1) they engaged in a protected activity, (2) BNSF knew about the protected activity, (3) they suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) the circumstances raise an inference that the protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse action. See Kuduk v. BNSF Ry. Co., 768 F.3d 786, 789 (8th Cir. 2014).

The appellants engaged in protected activity when they reported the unsafe conditions at the bridge to BNSF officials, including Trainmaster Dixon and Claims Representative Murphy. See 49 U.S.C. § 20109(a)(1)(C) (protecting an employee's report of a hazardous safety or security condition). BNSF was aware of these reports, as evidenced by the written and recorded statements made by the appellants. 

The appellants suffered adverse employment actions when they were subjected to increased operations testing, disciplined for alleged rule infractions, and, in Foster's case, terminated. See id. § 20109(b)(2)(A) (defining an adverse action as including "the discipline, including removal from service, of an employee"). The increased operations testing and subsequent discipline created a hostile work environment, causing Kline and Snyder to alter their work habits and take on less lucrative assignments. See Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. White, 548 U.S. 53, 68 (2006) (holding that an adverse action is one that "might have dissuaded a reasonable worker from making or supporting a charge of discrimination").

The temporal proximity between the appellants' protected activity and the adverse actions raises an inference of retaliation. The appellants reported the unsafe bridge conditions on April 2, 5, 12, and 13, 2012, and were subjected to increased operations testing and disciplinary proceedings shortly thereafter. See Araujo v. N.J. Transit Rail Operations, Inc., 708 F.3d 152, 158 (3d Cir. 2013) (holding that a two-month period between protected activity and adverse action was sufficient to establish a causal connection).

BNSF's proffered reasons for disciplining the appellants – alleged rule infractions – are pretextual. The Public Law Board's decision to reinstate Foster, remove Snyder's reprimand, and expunge Kline's suspension from their records suggests that the discipline was unwarranted. See 45 U.S.C. § 153 (establishing the Public Law Board's authority to review and overturn disciplinary decisions). The Board's findings undermine BNSF's assertion that the appellants committed rule infractions, raising a genuine issue of material fact as to whether BNSF's true motive was retaliation.

The district court's grant of summary judgment was improper, as the appellants have presented sufficient evidence to raise a genuine dispute as to whether BNSF retaliated against them for reporting the hazardous bridge conditions. See Tolan v. Cotton, 134 S. Ct. 1861, 1866 (2014) (holding that summary judgment is inappropriate when there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact). This Court should reverse the district court's decision and remand the case for further proceedings.