ARGUMENT

I. The Bankruptcy Court Lacked Jurisdiction to Determine Post-Petition Interest and Collection Costs

The bankruptcy court's determination of post-petition interest and collection costs was improper because it lacked jurisdiction to do so. Under 28 U.S.C. § 1334, a bankruptcy court's jurisdiction is limited to matters that are "related to" a bankruptcy case. See Celotex Corp. v. Edwards, 514 U.S. 300, 308 (1995) (holding that "related to" jurisdiction under § 1334(b) is not unlimited). The Supreme Court has held that a bankruptcy court's jurisdiction is limited to cases that "could conceivably have any effect on the estate being administered in bankruptcy." Pacor, Inc. v. Higgins, 743 F.2d 984, 994 (3d Cir. 1984), overruled on other grounds by Things Remembered, Inc. v. Petrarca, 516 U.S. 124 (1995).

In this case, Kirkland's bankruptcy estate was closed, and she had been discharged before she filed her Complaint. The determination of post-petition interest and collection costs has no effect on the administration of the bankruptcy estate. Therefore, the bankruptcy court lacked jurisdiction to make such a determination. See In re Querner, 7 F.3d 1199, 1201 (5th Cir. 1993) (holding that a bankruptcy court's jurisdiction is limited to matters that affect the bankruptcy estate).

Furthermore, the bankruptcy court's jurisdiction is not retained simply because Kirkland's Complaint initiated an adversary proceeding. The court's jurisdiction must be tied to a specific statutory provision, and in this case, there is no such provision that grants jurisdiction to determine post-petition interest and collection costs after the bankruptcy estate is closed. See In re FedPak Sys., Inc., 80 F.3d 207, 213-14 (7th Cir. 1996) (holding that a bankruptcy court's jurisdiction is not retained after the bankruptcy case is closed unless there is a specific statutory provision granting jurisdiction).

ECMC acknowledges that Kirkland is responsible for paying post-petition interest, as she conceded in her Complaint. However, the bankruptcy court's determination of the amount of post-petition interest and collection costs was improper due to its lack of jurisdiction.

II. The Bankruptcy Court Erred in Failing to Award ECMC Collection Costs

Even if the bankruptcy court had jurisdiction to determine collection costs, it erred in failing to award ECMC such costs. The court's decision was based on ECMC's failure to provide a "statutory or factual basis for the accrual of such costs." J.A. 87. However, ECMC is entitled to collection costs under the terms of the loan agreement and applicable law. The court's failure to award collection costs was an abuse of discretion.

The district court erred in affirming the bankruptcy court's determination. This Court should reverse the district court's order and remand the case with instructions to dismiss the Complaint for lack of jurisdiction or, alternatively, to award ECMC collection costs.

Respectfully submitted,