## Argument

The district court erred in dismissing Buckles's 28 U.S.C. § 2255 motion as untimely. The timeliness of Buckles's § 2255 motion hinges on whether his petition for certiorari was timely filed. If our order recalling the mandate restarted the clock for the 90-day period within which Buckles was required to petition the Supreme Court for certiorari review, then his petition was timely, and so was his subsequent § 2255 motion.

The Supreme Court has long held that the timely filing of a petition for certiorari is a jurisdictional prerequisite to the Court's review. See Magnum Co. v. Coty, 262 U.S. 159, 163 (1923) ("The rules of the Court ... fix the time within which a petition for a writ of certiorari must be filed; and, unless filed within the time specified, the petition will not be considered."). The rules of the Supreme Court provide that a petition for certiorari must be filed within 90 days of the entry of the judgment or order sought to be reviewed. Sup.Ct. R. 13(1) (as it existed prior to 1970). However, the rules also provide that if a lower court entertains an untimely petition for rehearing or recalls its mandate, the time to file a petition for certiorari runs from the date of the denial of rehearing or the reissuance of the mandate. See United States v. Healy, 376 U.S. 75, 78-79 (1964) (holding that the time for filing a petition for certiorari begins to run anew when a lower court grants a petition for rehearing).

In this case, our court's order recalling the mandate effectively restarted the clock for filing a petition for certiorari. See Healy, 376 U.S. at 78-79. The fact that we subsequently denied Buckles's motion for appointment of counsel does not alter this conclusion. Our order recalling the mandate was a definitive action that triggered a new 90-day period within which Buckles could file his petition for certiorari.

Furthermore, Buckles's reliance on the advice provided by the Ninth Circuit Clerk's office to his sister, Bonnie Weinberger, is reasonable. See Robertson v. Railroad Labor Board, 268 U.S. 619, 627 (1925) (noting that a party's reliance on the advice of a court clerk can be a relevant factor in determining whether to grant relief). Buckles's interpretation of the Clerk's statement to mean that he needed to file his petition for certiorari within 90 days of the recalled mandate is a reasonable one.

In the alternative, if Buckles's petition for certiorari was untimely, he is entitled to equitable tolling due to the misconduct of his attorney and the misinformation provided by the Ninth Circuit Clerk's office. See Burnett v. New York Central R. Co., 380 U.S. 424, 428-429 (1965) (holding that a plaintiff's failure to comply with a statute of limitations can be excused if the plaintiff was misled by the defendant's actions).

Therefore, the district court erred in dismissing Buckles's § 2255 motion as untimely, and this court should reverse the district court's order and remand for further proceedings.