## Argument

I. The District Court Erred in Denying Winbush's Motion for a Fingerprint Identification Expert and Motion to Continue.

The district court's denial of Winbush's motion for a fingerprint identification expert and motion to continue was an abuse of discretion that prejudiced Winbush's defense. The Sixth Amendment guarantees a defendant the right to present a defense, which includes the right to expert assistance when necessary. See Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U.S. 68, 76-77 (1985). The denial of Winbush's motion for a fingerprint expert deprived him of the opportunity to challenge the government's evidence and present a complete defense.

The government's Notice of Expert Witnesses, filed on October 3, 2007, indicated that Michael Shay would testify that no latent fingerprints of value were discovered on the physical evidence. Winbush's decision to stipulate to Shay's testimony at the November 2, 2007, pretrial conference was reasonable, given the information available at the time. However, when Winbush filed his Motion for Fingerprint Identification Expert on November 8, 2007, he was seeking to independently verify the government's findings and potentially challenge Shay's testimony.

The magistrate judge's denial of Winbush's motion was based on the untimeliness of the request, stating that it was "woefully late." However, the Supreme Court has held that a defendant's right to expert assistance is not limited by the timing of the request, as long as it is made in a timely manner under the circumstances. See Ake, 470 U.S. at 82-83. Given that the trial was still five days away, and the government had already disclosed its expert witnesses, Winbush's request was not unreasonably late.

Furthermore, the denial of Winbush's motion to continue was also an abuse of discretion. The district court should have considered the factors set forth in United States v. Robbins, 197 F.3d 829, 846 (7th Cir. 1999), including the diligence of the defendant, the prejudice to the defendant, and the inconvenience to the court and the government. In this case, Winbush had been diligent in his request, and the denial of the continuance prejudiced his ability to prepare a defense.

The government's reliance on United States v. Cravens, 275 F.3d 637 (7th Cir. 2001), is misplaced. In Cravens, the defendant's request for a continuance was denied because it was deemed to be a delay tactic. Id. at 641. In contrast, Winbush's request was made in good faith and was necessary to his defense.

The error was not harmless, as the lack of fingerprint evidence linking Winbush to the Tennessee and Kentucky crack was a critical aspect of the government's case. See United States v. Mansoori, 304 F.3d 635, 646 (7th Cir. 2002). The denial of Winbush's motion for a fingerprint expert and motion to continue prejudiced his ability to challenge this evidence and present a complete defense.

Therefore, the district court's denial of Winbush's motion for a fingerprint identification expert and motion to continue was an abuse of discretion that warrants reversal.