ARGUMENT

I. The District Court Erred in Dismissing Bryant's Claim to Enforce the Arbitration Award

The district court erred in dismissing Bryant's claim to enforce the arbitration award. As an employee covered by a collective bargaining agreement, Bryant has standing to seek enforcement of the arbitration award under the principles established in United Steelworkers of America v. Enterprise Wheel & Car Corp., 363 U.S. 593 (1960). In Enterprise Wheel, the Supreme Court held that an arbitration award is final and binding on the parties, and that an employee has standing to enforce the award. Id. at 599. Similarly, in Textile Workers Union of America v. Lincoln Mills of Alabama, 353 U.S. 448 (1957), the Court held that § 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act authorizes federal courts to enforce arbitration awards. Id. at 451.

Here, Bryant's employment is covered by a collective bargaining agreement between Bell Atlantic and the CWA, and he has obtained an arbitration award in his favor. Under Enterprise Wheel and Lincoln Mills, Bryant has standing to seek enforcement of the award, and the district court erred in dismissing his claim.

II. The District Court Erred in Failing to Recognize the Applicable Burden-Shifting Standard

The district court erred in failing to recognize the burden-shifting standard applicable to Title VII and Section 1981 claims, as established in McNabb v. United States, 79 F.2d 372 (5th Cir. 1935), and later clarified in cases such as Chambers v. Florida, 309 U.S. 227 (1940). Under this standard, a plaintiff must first establish a prima facie case of discrimination, after which the burden shifts to the defendant to articulate a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for the adverse employment action. See Frazier v. United States, 172 F.2d 28 (9th Cir. 1949). If the defendant meets this burden, the plaintiff must then show that the defendant's proffered reason is pretextual. See Steele v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co., 323 U.S. 192 (1944).

In this case, Bryant has presented evidence that he was subjected to discriminatory treatment, including the imposition of disciplinary actions for failure to work his Red Letter Days, while his employer refused to accommodate his child care responsibilities. Under the burden-shifting standard, Bryant has established a prima facie case of discrimination, and the district court erred in failing to recognize this.

III. The District Court Erred in Granting Summary Judgment

The district court erred in granting summary judgment, as there are genuine issues of material fact still in dispute. Under the principles established in Sartor v. Arkansas Natural Gas Corp., 321 U.S. 620 (1944), summary judgment is only appropriate where there is no genuine issue of material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Id. at 627. Here, there are disputed issues of fact regarding Bell Atlantic's motivations for disciplining and terminating Bryant, as well as the availability of accommodations that could have resolved the conflict between Bryant's child care responsibilities and his Red Letter Day obligations.

Furthermore, the district court failed to draw reasonable inferences in favor of Bryant, as required by Poller v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 368 U.S. 464 (1962). In Poller, the Supreme Court held that on summary judgment, the court must draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the non-moving party. Id. at 473. Here, the district court failed to do so, and instead granted summary judgment in favor of Bell Atlantic.

In addition, the district court erred in failing to consider the principles established in cases such as NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U.S. 1 (1937), which held that an employer's actions may be considered discriminatory if they are motivated by an intent to discriminate. Id. at 45. Here, Bryant has presented evidence that Bell Atlantic's actions were motivated by a discriminatory intent, and the district court erred in failing to consider this evidence.

In conclusion, the district court erred in dismissing Bryant's claim to enforce the arbitration award, failing to recognize the applicable burden-shifting standard, and granting summary judgment. Under the principles established in Enterprise Wheel, Lincoln Mills, McNabb, Chambers, Frazier, Steele, Sartor, Poller, and Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., the district court's decision should be reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings.