The district court erred in entering judgment against Sieben, doing business as Plaza Motors Company, Inc. (Sieben), on Judith Feltmann's claims of sex discrimination and retaliatory discharge under Title VII, the Missouri Human Rights Act (MHRA), and Missouri common law.

First, Feltmann failed to establish a prima facie case of sex discrimination under Title VII. To establish a prima facie case, Feltmann must show that she was a member of a protected class, was qualified for her position, suffered an adverse employment action, and that the circumstances give rise to an inference of discrimination. See Texas Dep't of Cmty. Affairs v. Burdine, 450 U.S. 248, 253 (1981). Feltmann was not qualified for her position as a sales consultant because her average gross profit for several months was the lowest of all consultants. See id. at 253 n.6 (noting that a plaintiff must show she was "qualified for the job"). Moreover, the circumstances do not give rise to an inference of discrimination. Rich's memo to Feltmann regarding her "work ethic" was not discriminatory, as it was based on her legitimate job performance issues. See Clark v. Runyon, 218 F.3d 915, 918 (8th Cir. 2000) (holding that an employer's criticism of an employee's job performance is not discriminatory if it is based on legitimate concerns).

Furthermore, even if Feltmann had established a prima facie case, Sieben articulated legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its actions. See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U.S. 792, 802 (1973). Rich's memos to Feltmann regarding her "work ethic" and use of the demo car were based on her job performance and the need to control costs at the dealership. Feltmann failed to show that these reasons were pretextual. See id. at 804-05 (holding that a plaintiff must show that the employer's proffered reasons are pretextual to establish liability).

Feltmann's retaliatory discharge claim under Title VII also fails. To establish a prima facie case of retaliation, Feltmann must show that she engaged in protected activity, suffered an adverse employment action, and that there is a causal connection between the two. See Evans v. Kansas City, Mo. Sch. Dist., 65 F.3d 98, 100 (8th Cir. 1995). Feltmann's complaint about Anzalone's comment was protected activity, but she did not suffer an adverse employment action as a result. See id. at 101 (noting that not all actions taken in response to protected activity are adverse employment actions). The Capps brothers reprimanded Anzalone and told him that if anything like that happened again he would be terminated. Feltmann was not terminated or demoted, and her sales performance continued to be evaluated based on legitimate criteria.

Under the MHRA, the analysis is similar. See Tart v. Hill Behan Lumber Co., 31 F.3d 668, 671 (8th Cir. 1994) (noting that the MHRA is analyzed in the same manner as Title VII). Feltmann's claim of sex discrimination under the MHRA fails for the same reasons as her Title VII claim.

Finally, Feltmann's Missouri common law claim for wrongful discharge also fails. To establish a claim for wrongful discharge, Feltmann must show that she was discharged in violation of a clear mandate of public policy. See Boyle v. Vista Eyewear, Inc., 700 S.W.2d 859, 871 (Mo. Ct. App. 1985). Feltmann was not discharged, and even if she had been, the discharge was not in violation of a clear mandate of public policy. See id. at 875 (noting that a discharge must be "clearly contrary to a mandate of public policy" to be wrongful).

The district court's judgment should be reversed because Feltmann failed to establish a prima facie case of sex discrimination or retaliatory discharge under Title VII, the MHRA, or Missouri common law. See St. Mary's Honor Ctr. v. Hicks, 509 U.S. 502, 515-16 (1993) (holding that a plaintiff must establish a prima facie case and show that the employer's proffered reasons are pretextual to establish liability); see also Kiel v. Select Artificials, Inc., 169 F.3d 1131, 1135 (8th Cir. 1999) (en banc) (noting that a plaintiff must show that the employer's proffered reasons are pretextual to establish liability). The judgment against Sieben should be reversed, and the case remanded for entry of judgment in favor of Sieben.