ARGUMENT

I. The District Court Erred in Admitting Prejudicial and Erroneous Testimony from the Assistant District Attorneys and Police Lieutenant.

The trial was tainted by the admission of improper testimony from two Assistant District Attorneys ("ADAs") and a police lieutenant, who vouched for the credibility of Officers Ramos and Rivera, offered legal conclusions on probable cause, and interpreted evidence that the jury was equally capable of analyzing. This testimony was highly prejudicial and warrants a new trial.

It is a fundamental principle of evidence law that witnesses may not vouch for the credibility of other witnesses. United States v. Forrester, 60 F.3d 52, 63 (2d Cir. 1995) ("It is not the province of one witness to express an opinion on the credibility of another witness."). The ADAs and police lieutenant impermissibly bolstered Ramos's and Rivera's credibility, which was a critical issue at trial. See id. (reversing conviction due to improper vouching).

Moreover, the witnesses' testimony on probable cause was an improper invasion of the jury's province. See Hygh v. Jacobs, 961 F.2d 359, 365 (2d Cir. 1992) ("[T]he ultimate legal conclusion as to ... probable cause is for the court, not for the witnesses, to decide."). By testifying on the existence of probable cause, the ADAs and police lieutenant effectively told the jury how to decide the case.

Finally, the witnesses interpreted evidence that the jury was capable of analyzing on its own, which is also improper. See United States v. Scop, 846 F.2d 135, 140 (2d Cir. 1988) ("[A] witness's interpretation of ... evidence ... is not admissible if it invades the province of the jury to determine the facts."). The admission of this testimony was not harmless, as it directly addressed the two most contested issues at trial: Ramos's and Rivera's credibility and the existence of probable cause.

II. The District Court Erred in Failing to Instruct the Jury on the Lawfulness of the Arrest as an Element of Obstructing Governmental Administration.

Appellants argue that the District Court should have instructed the jury that, under New York law, the offense of "obstructing governmental administration" requires that the obstructed officers be engaged in a lawful arrest. The court's failure to give this instruction was error.

Under New York law, a person is guilty of obstructing governmental administration when they "intentionally obstruct[], impair[] or pervert[] the administration of law or other governmental function" by, inter alia, "prevent[ing] or attempt[ing] to prevent a public servant from performing an official function." N.Y. Penal Law § 195.05. The New York Court of Appeals has held that this offense requires that the obstructed officers be engaged in an "authorized and lawful" activity. People v. Lupinacci, 191 A.D.2d 589, 590 (N.Y. App. Div. 1993). Therefore, the jury should have been instructed that Higgenbottom's arrest for obstructing governmental administration was lawful only if Ramos and Rivera were engaged in a lawful arrest of Cameron.

III. The District Court Erred in Failing to Instruct the Jury on Punitive Damages.

Appellants also argue that the District Court should have instructed the jury on punitive damages, as their version of events would have allowed a jury to infer that Ramos and Rivera acted with malice. The court's failure to give this instruction was error.

Punitive damages are available under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 when a defendant's conduct is "shown to be motivated by evil motive or intent, or when it involves reckless or callous indifference to the federally protected rights of others." Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30, 56 (1983). Appellants' account of the incident, if believed, would have allowed a jury to infer that Ramos and Rivera acted with malice, entitling them to a punitive damages instruction.

For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the District Court should be reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial with proper jury instructions.