ARGUMENT

I. The District Court Erred in Dismissing Moll's Hostile Work Environment Claim

The district court incorrectly limited its consideration of Moll's hostile work environment claim to only those allegations that were "sexually offensive" in nature. However, as this Court has held, a sex-based hostile work environment claim may be supported by a combination of facially sex-neutral and sex-related incidents. Alfano v. Costello, 294 F.3d 365, 375 (2d Cir. 2002). The district court's narrow focus on "sexually offensive acts" was erroneous, as it failed to consider the totality of the circumstances alleged by Moll.

In Alfano, this Court emphasized that "the fact that the evidence in [a hostile work environment] case is not limited to overtly sexual incidents does not, as a matter of law, preclude a trier of fact from concluding that a work environment was 'sexually hostile.'" Id. at 378. Moll's allegations, including Irving's repeated phone calls to her hotel room, his refusal to permit her to communicate with him by email or telephone, and his disparate treatment of her compared to her male colleagues, should have been considered in their totality to determine whether they created a hostile work environment.

By failing to do so, the district court improperly granted summary judgment on Moll's hostile work environment claim. This Court should vacate the district court's judgment and remand for further consideration of Moll's claim in light of the totality of the circumstances.

II. The District Court Erred in Applying the "Sham Issue of Fact" Doctrine to Non-Party Witness Testimony

The district court also erred in applying the "sham issue of fact" doctrine to disregard subsequent testimony from non-party witnesses that conflicted with their prior statements. This doctrine is limited to situations where a party attempts to create a material issue of fact by contradicting their own prior testimony. See generally Hayes v. N.Y.C. Dep't of Corr., 84 F.3d 614, 619 (2d Cir. 1996).

The district court's application of this doctrine to non-party witnesses was improper, as it unfairly restricted Moll's ability to present evidence in opposition to Verizon's motion for summary judgment. This Court should reverse the district court's decision and allow Moll to present the subsequent testimony of non-party witnesses.

For the foregoing reasons, this Court should vacate the district court's judgment and remand for further proceedings.