I. The District Court Erred in Granting Summary Judgment to Arrow Energy on Wasek's Title VII and Elliot-Larsen Civil Rights Act Claims.

Wasek presented sufficient evidence to create a genuine issue of material fact as to whether he was subjected to a hostile work environment because of his sex. Under Title VII, a plaintiff must show that (1) he is a member of a protected class, (2) he was subjected to unwelcome harassment, (3) the harassment was based on his sex, (4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work performance by creating a hostile, offensive, or intimidating work environment, and (5) the employer is liable. See Hafford v. Seidner, 183 F.3d 506, 512 (6th Cir. 1999). The Elliot-Larsen Civil Rights Act ("ELCRA") has a similar standard. See Radtke v. Everett, 442 Mich. 368, 382-83 (1993).

The district court erred in concluding that Wasek failed to establish a genuine issue of material fact as to whether the harassment was based on his sex. The record shows that Ottobre subjected Wasek to repeated and egregious harassment, including touching Wasek's buttocks, poking him in the rear with a hammer handle and a sucker rod, and making numerous sexually explicit comments. See Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Servs., Inc., 523 U.S. 75, 80 (1998) (holding that same-sex harassment is actionable under Title VII). The severity and frequency of Ottobre's conduct, coupled with its overtly sexual nature, creates a genuine issue of material fact as to whether the harassment was based on Wasek's sex.

Moreover, the fact that Ottobre's behavior was motivated by a perceived sexual attraction to Wasek, as Wasek believed Ottobre was bisexual, further supports Wasek's claim. See id. at 80-81 (noting that "male-on-male sexual harassment" can be actionable under Title VII if it is "because of sex"). The district court erred in discounting Wasek's testimony regarding Ottobre's motivations, as it is the province of the jury to assess credibility. See Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 255 (1986).

Furthermore, Arrow Energy is liable for the harassment under the standard set forth in Burlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth, 524 U.S. 742 (1998), and Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, 524 U.S. 775 (1998). Wasek notified multiple supervisors, including Tripp and Smillie, about Ottobre's behavior, but they failed to take adequate action to stop the harassment. See id. at 765 (noting that an employer is liable for harassment if it "knew or should have known" about the harassment and "failed to take prompt and appropriate corrective action"). The responses of Tripp and Smillie, advising Wasek not to "make waves" and suggesting that Wasek "kick [Ottobre's] ass," demonstrate a failure to take Wasek's complaints seriously and to take adequate corrective action.

In sum, Wasek presented sufficient evidence to create a genuine issue of material fact as to whether he was subjected to a hostile work environment because of his sex, and whether Arrow Energy is liable for the harassment. The district court erred in granting summary judgment to Arrow Energy on Wasek's Title VII and ELCRA claims.