## ARGUMENT

The district court erred in dismissing Beg's complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA). The commercial activity exception to the FSIA, 28 U.S.C. § 1605(a)(2), applies to Beg's claims because the expropriation of his property and subsequent actions by the Pakistani government constitute a commercial activity that had a direct effect in the United States.

The FSIA provides that a foreign state is not immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States if "the action is based upon a commercial activity carried on in the United States by the foreign state; or upon an act performed in the United States in connection with a commercial activity of the foreign state elsewhere; or upon an act outside the territory of the United States in connection with a commercial activity of the foreign state elsewhere and that act causes a direct effect in the United States." 28 U.S.C. § 1605(a)(2). The statute defines "commercial activity" as "either a regular course of commercial conduct or a particular commercial transaction or act," and provides that the "commercial character of an activity shall be determined by reference to the nature of the course of conduct or particular transaction or act, rather than by reference to its purpose." 28 U.S.C. § 1603(d).

The Supreme Court has held that the commercial activity exception is to be applied in a manner that is consistent with the restrictive theory of foreign sovereign immunity, which "restrict[s] a foreign state's sovereign immunity to cases involving acts of a governmental nature." Republic of Argentina v. Weltover, Inc., 504 U.S. 607, 612 (1992) (citing Alfred Dunhill of London, Inc. v. Republic of Cuba, 425 U.S. 682, 703-704 (1976)). In determining whether an activity is commercial, courts should focus on the "nature" of the activity, rather than its "purpose." Id. at 614.

In this case, the Pakistani government's expropriation of Beg's property and subsequent transfer of the property to members of the military or other parties constitutes a commercial activity. The government's actions in acquiring and disposing of the property are akin to a private party's actions in buying and selling real estate, and thus are commercial in nature. See id. at 615-616 (holding that Argentina's issuance of bonds was a commercial activity because it was "in connection with [a] commercial activity" and "not a uniquely sovereign act").

Furthermore, the Pakistani government's actions had a direct effect in the United States. The Government of Punjab sent a representative to the United States to offer Beg an alternative parcel of land, which demonstrates that the government's actions were not limited to Pakistan and had a tangible impact on Beg in the United States. See id. at 618-619 (holding that Argentina's failure to make payments on bonds had a direct effect in the United States because the payments were supposed to be made in New York).

The district court's dismissal of Beg's complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction was therefore in error. The commercial activity exception to the FSIA applies to Beg's claims, and the court should have exercised jurisdiction over the case. This Court should reverse the district court's order and remand the case for further proceedings.

Glen v. Club Med, Inc., 450 F.3d 1251 (11th Cir. 2006), is not controlling here, as it involved different facts and did not address the specific issue of expropriation and subsequent commercial activity. Instead, the reasoning in Weltover, 504 U.S. at 612, and other cases applying the commercial activity exception, supports the conclusion that the district court erred in dismissing Beg's complaint. 

Reversal is warranted because the district court misapplied the commercial activity exception to the FSIA.