ARGUMENT

The district court's grant of a preliminary injunction requiring Cadman Towers to provide Shapiro with a parking space on the ground floor of her building's parking garage was an abuse of discretion. The court's conclusion that Shapiro was likely to succeed on the merits of her claim under the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, 42 U.S.C. § 3604(f), was erroneous.

The Fair Housing Act requires a housing provider to make "reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford [a disabled] person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling." 42 U.S.C. § 3604(f)(3)(B). However, the Act does not require a housing provider to make accommodations that are not "reasonable" or that impose an "undue hardship" on the provider. See United States v. California Mobile Home Park Management Co., 29 F.3d 1413, 1416-17 (9th Cir. 1994) (citing legislative history of the Fair Housing Act).

In this case, Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy for allocating parking spaces is a neutral rule that applies equally to all residents. While Shapiro's disability may require a reasonable accommodation, Cadman Towers is not obligated to grant her a parking space out of turn. See Oxford House, Inc. v. City of Albany, 819 F. Supp. 1168, 1183 (N.D.N.Y. 1993) (holding that a municipality was not required to waive its zoning ordinance to accommodate a group home for recovering addicts, as the ordinance was a "reasonable and neutral" regulation).

The district court's conclusion that Shapiro was entitled to a parking space immediately was based on an overly broad interpretation of the Fair Housing Act's reasonable accommodation requirement. The Act does not require a housing provider to make an accommodation that is not "necessary" to afford a disabled person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. See Bronson v. Crestwood Lake Section 1 Holding Corp., 724 F. Supp. 148, 154 (S.D.N.Y. 1989) (holding that a condominium association was not required to install a ramp to accommodate a disabled resident, as the resident had alternative means of accessing the building).

Cadman Towers' policy of allocating parking spaces on a first-come/first-served basis is reasonable, and Shapiro will have an opportunity to obtain a parking space in the normal course. At that time, Cadman Towers can consider making a reasonable accommodation to Shapiro's disability, such as assigning her a parking space near her apartment. See United States v. Village of Palatine, 37 F.3d 1230, 1234 (7th Cir. 1994) (holding that a municipality was required to make a reasonable accommodation to a disabled resident by reassigning a parking space, but only after the resident had been allocated a space under the municipality's normal procedures).

In sum, the district court's grant of a preliminary injunction was an abuse of discretion, as Shapiro is not entitled to a parking space out of turn under the Fair Housing Act. Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy is a reasonable and neutral rule that applies equally to all residents, and Shapiro will have an opportunity to obtain a parking space in the normal course. The judgment of the district court should be reversed.