ARGUMENT

I. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN ADMONISHING THE JURY TO DISREGARD TESTIMONY CONCERNING SUBSEQUENT REMEDIAL MEASURES PROPERLY ADMITTED FOR IMPEACHMENT PURPOSES

The district court initially granted Wood's motion in limine to exclude evidence of subsequent remedial measures under Rule 407 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, unless the feasibility of a safer design was placed at issue. However, when Morbark's counsel implied during opening statements and cross-examination that the wood chipper's design had not changed and was still in use by various government agencies, the court permitted Wood's counsel to rebut this implication by eliciting testimony about the modifications made to the infeed chute. See R4-141-51. The court's decision to allow this rebuttal testimony was proper, as it was used to impeach Morbark's suggestion that the original design was safe and unchanged. See Tuer v. McGannon, 426 F.2d 1244, 1247 (5th Cir. 1970) (holding that evidence of subsequent repairs is admissible for impeachment purposes).

Morbark's counsel opened the door to this rebuttal testimony by suggesting that the City of DeFuniak Springs was still using the same wood chipper without any changes. See R4-141-44. The district court correctly observed that Morbark's counsel was "making suggestions to the jury that the city was still using that chipper, therefore, there must not be anything wrong with this chipper if the city still continues to use it on a daily basis" and that this would be "taking unfair advantage of the Court's ruling." Id. at 56. By allowing Wood's counsel to elicit testimony about the modifications made to the infeed chute, the court properly permitted impeachment of Morbark's implication.

However, the district court then erred in admonishing the jury to disregard this testimony. Once the testimony was properly admitted for impeachment purposes, the jury should have been allowed to consider it for that purpose. See Muzyka v. Remington Arms Co., 774 F.2d 1309, 1313 (5th Cir. 1985) (holding that evidence of subsequent remedial measures is admissible for impeachment purposes and that the jury should be allowed to consider it for that purpose).

The district court's admonition to the jury to disregard the testimony concerning subsequent remedial measures was prejudicial to Wood, as it undermined the impeachment value of the testimony. See Petree v. Victor Fluid Power, Inc., 887 F.2d 34, 38 (3d Cir. 1989) (holding that the exclusion of evidence of subsequent remedial measures can be prejudicial to the plaintiff). As a result, the district court's denial of Wood's motion for a new trial was erroneous.

II. RULE 407 DOES NOT APPLY TO STRICT PRODUCTS LIABILITY CASES

Furthermore, this Court should hold that Rule 407 does not apply to strict products liability cases. The majority of circuits have held that Rule 407 does not bar evidence of subsequent remedial measures in strict liability cases. See, e.g., Ault v. International Harvester Co., 528 F.2d 1137, 1140-41 (9th Cir. 1976); Sutkowski v. Universal Marion Corp., 281 F. Supp. 672, 675 (N.D. Ill. 1967). The rationale behind this holding is that the policy underlying Rule 407, which is to encourage defendants to take remedial measures without fear of admission in evidence, is not applicable in strict liability cases where the defendant is not necessarily negligent. See Ault, 528 F.2d at 1140-41.

In this case, the district court's application of Rule 407 to exclude evidence of subsequent remedial measures was overly broad, and the court should have allowed the jury to consider this evidence for all purposes, not just impeachment.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, this Court should reverse the district court's denial of Wood's motion for a new trial and remand the case for further proceedings.