I. The District Court Abused its Discretion in Striking the Testimony of Four Expert Witnesses

The district court's decision to strike the testimony of four expert witnesses was an abuse of discretion, as it was not proportionate to the Plaintiffs' failure to comply with the court's discovery orders. See National Hockey League v. Metropolitan Hockey Club, Inc., 427 U.S. 639, 642-43 (1976) (holding that a district court's dismissal of a complaint for failure to comply with discovery orders is reviewed for abuse of discretion). The court's order was overly harsh, as it deprived the Plaintiffs of crucial evidence necessary to prove their claims. See In re: Air Crash Disaster at New Orleans, La., 795 F.2d 1230, 1233 (5th Cir. 1986) (noting that the exclusion of expert testimony can be a "drastic" sanction).

The court's warning on June 3, 1993, that experts who failed to comply with the court's orders would be struck, was not sufficient to justify the severe sanction imposed. The Plaintiffs' failure to comply with the July 30, 1993 deadline was not willful or in bad faith, but rather a result of the complexity of the case and the experts' need for additional time to formulate their opinions. See Dorsey v. Academy Moving & Storage, Inc., 423 F.2d 858, 860-61 (5th Cir. 1970) (reversing a district court's dismissal of a complaint for failure to comply with discovery orders, where the plaintiff's noncompliance was not willful).

II. The District Court Erred in Excluding the Testimony of Dr. Schroeder and Dr. Watson Under Daubert

The district court's exclusion of the testimony of Dr. Schroeder and Dr. Watson under Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, 509 U.S. 579 (1993), was erroneous. The court's application of Daubert was overly restrictive, as it failed to consider the totality of the circumstances and the experts' qualifications and methodologies. See id. at 594-95 (noting that the inquiry under Rule 702 is "a flexible one"). The court's exclusion of the experts' testimony was not based on a thorough analysis of their methodologies and the reliability of their opinions.

The Supreme Court in Daubert emphasized that the trial judge's role is that of a "gatekeeper," not a "fact-finder." Id. at 597. The district court's exclusion of the experts' testimony was an improper usurpation of the jury's role as fact-finder. See id. at 596 (noting that "vigorous cross-examination, presentation of contrary evidence, and careful instruction on the burden of proof are the traditional and appropriate means of attacking shaky but admissible evidence").

III. The District Court's Grant of Summary Judgment was Improper

The district court's grant of summary judgment was improper, as it was based on the erroneous exclusion of the Plaintiffs' expert testimony. See Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-23 (1986) (noting that summary judgment is only appropriate where there is no genuine issue of material fact). The Plaintiffs had presented sufficient evidence to create a genuine issue of material fact, and the court's grant of summary judgment was therefore premature.

IV. The Appellants' Notice of Appeal was Timely

Although the district court did not enter a final order until March 1, 1995, the Appellants' notice of appeal filed on October 19, 1994, was not premature. The court's order granting summary judgment was a final judgment as to the Jackson and Lemond Plaintiffs, and the Appellants' notice of appeal was therefore timely. See FirsTier Mortgage Co. v. Investors Mortgage Ins. Co., 498 U.S. 269, 273-74 (1991) (holding that a notice of appeal filed after a district court's grant of summary judgment, but before the entry of a final order, can be considered timely if the court's order was a "final decision" as to the parties).