ARGUMENT

The district court's order granting a preliminary injunction in favor of Phyllis Shapiro must be reversed because it misapplies the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, 42 U.S.C. § 3604(f). The Act requires housing providers to make reasonable accommodations in their policies and procedures to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. However, the Act does not mandate that housing providers immediately accommodate every request made by a disabled individual, regardless of the provider's existing policies.

The district court's injunction effectively rewrote Cadman Towers' parking allocation policy, substituting its own judgment for that of the cooperative's Board of Directors. This was error. As the Supreme Court has held, "courts should be wary of injecting themselves into the management of private housing." Loretto v. Teleprompter Manhattan CATV Corp., 458 U.S. 419, 440 (1982). See also, FCC v. Beach Communications, Inc., 508 U.S. 307, 316 (1993) (rational basis review applies to legislative classifications, even if they are not perfectly tailored to achieve the desired end).

Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy is a neutral, facially valid rule that has been applied consistently to all residents. The fact that there are exceptions to this policy, such as the grandfathering of certain apartments with two parking spaces, does not render it discriminatory. See, e.g., Bangerter v. Orem City Corp., 46 F.3d 1491, 1503-04 (10th Cir. 1995) (ordinance that exempted certain housing from its requirements was not discriminatory on its face).

The district court's reliance on Shapiro's disability to justify the injunction is misplaced. While the Fair Housing Act requires reasonable accommodations, it does not require that housing providers grant preferential treatment to disabled individuals. See, e.g., Bryant Woods Inn, Inc. v. Howard County, 124 F.3d 597, 604 (4th Cir. 1997) (Act does not require "affirmative action" in favor of disabled individuals). Cadman Towers has offered to accommodate Shapiro's disability once she is assigned a parking space in the normal course, which is a reasonable accommodation.

The court's order also ignores the fact that Shapiro has not demonstrated a necessity for a parking space on the ground floor of the 101 Clark Street garage. See, e.g., United States v. California Mobile Home Park Management Co., 29 F.3d 1413, 1417 (9th Cir. 1994) (plaintiff must show that accommodation is necessary to afford equal opportunity to use and enjoy dwelling). Shapiro's difficulties in finding a parking spot on the street are not directly related to Cadman Towers' parking allocation policy.

Furthermore, the injunction imposes an undue burden on Cadman Towers and its other residents. See, e.g., Smith & Lee Associates, Inc. v. City of Taylor, 102 F.3d 781, 795 (6th Cir. 1996) (ordinance that imposed significant burden on housing providers was not a reasonable accommodation). By granting Shapiro a parking space out of turn, the court has effectively taken away the opportunity for other residents to obtain a parking space in the normal course.

In sum, the district court's order granting a preliminary injunction in favor of Shapiro must be reversed. The Fair Housing Act does not require Cadman Towers to grant Shapiro a parking space immediately, and the court's order misapplies the Act's reasonable accommodation requirement. See, e.g., Bronson v. Crestwood Lake Section 1 Holding Corp., 724 F. Supp. 148, 154 (S.D.N.Y. 1989) (court should not "second-guess" the business judgment of housing providers).

The cases cited by Shapiro in support of the injunction are distinguishable. For example, in United States v. Village of Palatine, 37 F.3d 1230 (7th Cir. 1994), the court found that the defendant's refusal to waive its occupancy restrictions was discriminatory. In contrast, Cadman Towers has not refused to accommodate Shapiro's disability; it has simply required her to wait her turn for a parking space. See also, e.g., City of Edmonds v. Oxford House, Inc., 514 U.S. 725 (1995) (ordinance that discriminated against group homes for recovering addicts was subject to reasonable accommodation requirement).

For the foregoing reasons, the district court's order granting a preliminary injunction in favor of Shapiro should be reversed.