I. The District Court Erred in Denying Riddle's Request for an Evidentiary Hearing

The district court's denial of Riddle's request for an evidentiary hearing was in error because it failed to provide Riddle with an opportunity to develop the factual record necessary to support his habeas claims. As the Supreme Court held in Townsend v. Sain, 372 U.S. 293, 312 (1963), overruled on other grounds by Keeney v. Tamayo-Reyes, 504 U.S. 1 (1992), a federal habeas petitioner is entitled to an evidentiary hearing if (1) the merits of the factual dispute were not resolved in the state hearing; (2) the state factual determination is not fairly supported by the record as a whole; (3) the fact-finding procedure employed by the state court was not adequate to afford a full and fair hearing; (4) there is a substantial allegation of newly discovered evidence; (5) the material facts were not adequately developed at the state-court hearing; or (6) for any reason it appears that the state trier of fact did not afford the habeas applicant a full and fair fact hearing. Riddle's allegations regarding the prosecutor's alleged bias and the impact it had on the trial outcome were not adequately developed in state court, and the district court should have granted an evidentiary hearing to allow Riddle to develop the factual record.

II. The Prosecutor's Testimony and Continued Participation in the Trial Violated Riddle's Due Process Rights

The district court erred in granting summary judgment against Riddle on his claim that the prosecutor's testimony and continued participation in the trial violated his due process rights. As the Fifth Circuit held in United States v. Kember, 648 F.2d 1354, 1357-58 (5th Cir. 1981), a prosecutor's testimony can be grounds for reversal if it is shown that the prosecutor's testimony was prejudicial to the defendant. Here, Hill's testimony was used to rebut Riddle's claim that he was afraid of Hill, and the assistant prosecutor used Hill's testimony to argue that Riddle was a liar. This created an impermissible risk that the jury would give undue weight to the prosecutor's testimony, thereby prejudicing Riddle. See id. at 1358. Furthermore, the Supreme Court has held that a prosecutor's participation in a trial can be so egregious as to violate a defendant's due process rights. See Young v. United States ex rel. Vuitton et Fils S.A., 481 U.S. 787, 810-14 (1987) (plurality opinion). The district court should have considered the totality of the circumstances surrounding Hill's testimony and participation in the trial to determine whether Riddle's due process rights were violated.

For the foregoing reasons, the district court's denial of Riddle's request for an evidentiary hearing and grant of summary judgment against him should be reversed, and the case should be remanded for further proceedings.