The district court erred in entering judgment against Sieben on Feltmann's claims of sex discrimination and retaliatory discharge under Title VII, the MHRA, and Missouri common law. 

First, Feltmann failed to establish a prima facie case of sex discrimination under Title VII. To establish a prima facie case, Feltmann must show that she is a member of a protected class, was qualified for her position, suffered an adverse employment action, and that the circumstances give rise to an inference of discrimination. See Texas Dep't of Cmty. Affairs v. Burdine, 450 U.S. 248, 253 (1981). Feltmann's evidence does not meet this standard. Although she was the only female consultant at Plaza Infiniti, her poor sales performance and low gross profits led to her being placed on probation and ultimately terminated. See Record at [insert relevant record citations]. The record shows that Rich's criticisms of Feltmann's sales methods were legitimate and not pretextual. See id. at [insert relevant record citations]. Moreover, the fact that Feltmann was not allowed to participate in the Chicago sales competition, despite her high March sales, does not give rise to an inference of discrimination, as Rich had already offered the opportunity to the top two consultants, who declined. See id. at [insert relevant record citations]. 

Furthermore, Feltmann's claim of retaliatory discharge under Title VII and the MHRA also fails. To establish a prima facie case of retaliation, Feltmann must show that she engaged in protected activity, suffered an adverse employment action, and that there is a causal connection between the two. See Evans v. Kansas City, Mo. Sch. Dist., 65 F.3d 98, 100 (8th Cir. 1995). Feltmann's complaint about Anzalone's vulgar comment was a protected activity, but her subsequent termination was not causally connected to that complaint. See id. at 101. The record shows that Feltmann was terminated due to her poor sales performance and failure to follow company policies, including the restriction on using demo cars outside the St. Louis area. See Record at [insert relevant record citations]. The fact that Barnstead told Feltmann that she had "polarized herself" from the rest of the sales department and was going to have a "thick personnel file" after she complained about Anzalone does not establish a causal connection between her complaint and her termination. See id. at [insert relevant record citations]. 

Under Missouri law, a plaintiff must prove that her discharge was causally connected to her protected activity to establish a claim for retaliatory discharge. See Hansome v. Northwestern Cooperage Co., 679 S.W.2d 273, 275 (Mo. banc 1984). As discussed above, Feltmann failed to establish this causal connection. Therefore, her claim for retaliatory discharge under Missouri common law also fails.

The judgment against Sieben should be reversed, as Feltmann failed to establish a prima facie case of sex discrimination and retaliatory discharge under Title VII, the MHRA, and Missouri common law.