ARGUMENT

I. The District Court Erred in Concluding that the Asserted Claims are Not Entitled to the Benefit of the Original Application’s Filing Date

The district court’s conclusion that the asserted claims are not entitled to the benefit of the Original Application’s filing date under 35 U.S.C. § 120 is incorrect. To be entitled to the benefit of an earlier filing date, the specification of the earlier application must provide a written description of the invention claimed in the later application, as required by 35 U.S.C. § 112. Vas-Cath Inc. v. Mahurkar, 935 F.2d 1555, 1560 (Fed. Cir. 1991). The written description requirement is satisfied if the earlier application conveys to one of ordinary skill in the art that the inventor was in possession of the invention claimed in the later application. Id. at 1563-64.

The district court erred in concluding that the Original Application did not provide a written description of the invention claimed in the asserted patents. The Original Application disclosed a vending machine for vending telecommunications channel access to a customer, which is the same invention claimed in the asserted patents. Although the 2000 CIP Application added new language to the specification, this addition does not necessarily mean that the Original Application lacked a written description of the invention. See In re Wright, 866 F.2d 422, 425 (Fed. Cir. 1989) (holding that the addition of new language to a specification does not necessarily mean that the original application lacked a written description of the invention).

Furthermore, the district court’s reliance on the new language added to the 2000 CIP Application to construe the claim term “customer interface” does not support its conclusion that the Original Application lacked a written description of the invention. The court’s construction of “customer interface” was based on the new language, but this does not mean that the Original Application did not convey to one of ordinary skill in the art that the inventor was in possession of the invention. See Lockwood v. American Airlines, Inc., 107 F.3d 1565, 1572 (Fed. Cir. 1997) (holding that a claim is entitled to the benefit of an earlier filing date if the earlier application conveys to one of ordinary skill in the art that the inventor was in possession of the invention).

Therefore, the asserted claims are entitled to the benefit of the Original Application’s filing date, and the MobileStar Network is not prior art under 35 U.S.C. § 102(b).

II. The District Court’s Grant of Summary Judgment was Improper

Because the asserted claims are entitled to the benefit of the Original Application’s filing date, the MobileStar Network is not prior art, and the district court’s grant of summary judgment that the asserted claims are anticipated under 35 U.S.C. § 102(b) was improper. See Glaxo Inc. v. Novopharm Ltd., 110 F.3d 1562, 1565 (Fed. Cir. 1997) (holding that a grant of summary judgment is improper if there is a genuine issue of material fact).

The district court’s grant of summary judgment should be reversed, and the case should be remanded for further proceedings.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the district court should be reversed, and the case should be remanded for further proceedings.