ARGUMENT

I. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON BURNETT'S FMLA CLAIM

The district court incorrectly concluded that Burnett failed to provide Habitat with sufficient notice of his need for FMLA leave. Under the FMLA, an employee need not expressly assert his FMLA rights or even mention the FMLA to invoke its protections. See Stoops v. One Call Communications, Inc., 141 F.3d 309, 312 (7th Cir. 1998). Rather, the employee must provide the employer with sufficient information to reasonably apprise it of the employee's request to take leave for a serious health condition. Id. 

Here, Burnett informed Polo that he was experiencing a "weak bladder" and was going to see a doctor to determine the cause. He later presented Polo with a doctor's order for blood testing and explained that he had been diagnosed with high PSA and cholesterol levels. Burnett also informed Polo of his upcoming doctor's appointments and need to see a urologist. On January 7, 2004, Burnett notified Habitat that he would be undergoing a prostate biopsy on January 27 and provided a document describing the procedure. This cumulative notice was sufficient to put Habitat on notice that Burnett's absences were related to a serious health condition. See id. at 313 (holding that an employee's statement that she was experiencing "female problems" and was going to see a doctor was sufficient to put the employer on notice).

Furthermore, the FMLA requires employers to inquire further if they are unclear about the reason for an employee's absence. See 29 C.F.R. § 825.303(a); Byrne v. Avon Products, Inc., 328 F.3d 379, 381-82 (7th Cir. 2003). Habitat failed to make such an inquiry, instead choosing to issue reprimands and ultimately suspend Burnett. The district court erred in granting summary judgment on Burnett's FMLA claim.

II. THE DISTRICT COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON BURNETT'S ADA CLAIM

The district court also erred in concluding that Burnett failed to provide Habitat with sufficient notice of his disability under the ADA. To establish a prima facie case of disability discrimination under the ADA, Burnett must show that he is disabled within the meaning of the ADA, that he is qualified to perform the essential functions of his job, and that he suffered an adverse employment action because of his disability. See Weigel v. Target Stores, 122 F.3d 461, 465 (7th Cir. 1997).

Burnett's disclosures to Polo regarding his "weak bladder," high PSA level, and upcoming doctor's appointments were sufficient to put Habitat on notice that he may have a disability. See EEOC v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 417 F.3d 789, 803 (7th Cir. 2005) (holding that an employer's knowledge of an employee's impairment can be inferred from the circumstances). Habitat's failure to engage in the interactive process required by the ADA, see 29 C.F.R. § 1630.2(o)(3); Beck v. University of Wisconsin Board of Regents, 75 F.3d 1130, 1135 (7th Cir. 1996), further supports Burnett's ADA claim.

The district court's grant of summary judgment on Burnett's ADA claim was therefore in error.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, the district court's grant of summary judgment should be reversed, and this case should be remanded for further proceedings.