## ARGUMENT

The district court's denial of Evelyn Gonzalez-Caballero's petition to return her daughter, Danelsy, to her custody in Panama was based on a clearly erroneous finding that Gonzalez-Caballero consented to the removal and retention of Danelsy by Ramon Mena. The Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, as incorporated into United States law through the International Child Abduction Remedies Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11601-11610, requires the return of a child wrongfully removed or retained in another country, unless the respondent can prove that the petitioner consented to the removal or retention.

The district court's finding that Gonzalez-Caballero consented to the removal and retention of Danelsy is not supported by the record. Gonzalez-Caballero's testimony indicates that she agreed to allow Mena to take Danelsy to the United States temporarily, either for two weeks or until she could immigrate to the United States and reassume custody. This is not a clear indication of consent to permanent removal or retention. As the court held in _Hanford v. Hanford_, 91 F. Supp. 801, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1950), "a consent to a temporary arrangement is not a consent to a permanent change."

Furthermore, the circumstances surrounding Mena's removal of Danelsy suggest that Gonzalez-Caballero did not provide informed consent. Mena purchased a one-way ticket for Danelsy, indicating that he intended to retain her in the United States. Gonzalez-Caballero's provision of Danelsy's legal documents to Mena does not necessarily imply consent to permanent removal, as she may have simply been facilitating the temporary trip. As the court noted in _In re Krause's Estate_, 173 F.2d 691, 694 (2d Cir. 1949), "the mere fact that a parent permits a child to be taken out of the country does not necessarily imply consent to a change of domicile."

The district court's finding is also undermined by Gonzalez-Caballero's prompt actions to recover Danelsy after Mena's departure. She consulted Panamanian authorities, contacted her local police department, and eventually traveled to the United States to seek assistance in recovering her daughter. This demonstrates that Gonzalez-Caballero did not acquiesce to Mena's retention of Danelsy. As the court held in _People ex rel. Stock v. Stock_, 126 N.Y.S.2d 603, 606 (N.Y. App. Div. 1953), "a parent's prompt action to recover a child wrongfully taken is evidence of a lack of consent."

In light of these facts and the applicable law, the district court's finding that Gonzalez-Caballero consented to the removal and retention of Danelsy is clearly erroneous. Therefore, the district court's denial of Gonzalez-Caballero's petition should be reversed, and Danelsy should be returned to her custody in Panama.