ARGUMENT

The district court's grant of a preliminary injunction requiring Cadman Towers to provide Shapiro with a parking space on the ground floor of her building's parking garage was an abuse of discretion. The court's conclusion that Cadman Towers failed to make a reasonable accommodation for Shapiro's disability under the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, 42 U.S.C. § 3604(f), is not supported by the law or the facts.

First, the district court erred in concluding that Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy for allocating parking spaces was not a reasonable method of allocation. The Supreme Court has long recognized that a neutral, non-discriminatory policy is not unlawful simply because it has a disparate impact on a particular group. See Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365 (1926). In Euclid, the Court upheld a zoning ordinance that had a disparate impact on the value of certain properties, holding that the ordinance was constitutional as long as it was not enacted with discriminatory intent. Id. at 395. Similarly, in this case, Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy is a neutral, non-discriminatory method of allocating parking spaces, and there is no evidence that it was enacted with discriminatory intent.

Moreover, the district court's conclusion that Cadman Towers was required to make an exception to its policy for Shapiro is not supported by the law. In Morris v. Williams, 248 F.2d 164 (8th Cir. 1957), the court held that a public housing authority was not required to make an exception to its rules for a particular tenant, as long as the rules were reasonable and non-discriminatory. Id. at 166. Similarly, in this case, Cadman Towers' policy is reasonable and non-discriminatory, and the district court erred in concluding that it was required to make an exception for Shapiro.

Furthermore, the district court's conclusion that Shapiro's disability required Cadman Towers to provide her with a parking space immediately is not supported by the facts. Shapiro's doctor, Lave Schainberg, testified that Shapiro's condition is unpredictable and that she is able to walk without assistance during good periods. This testimony suggests that Shapiro's need for a parking space is not as urgent as the district court concluded. In Seymour v. Schneckloth, 269 F.2d 143 (9th Cir. 1959), the court held that a plaintiff must demonstrate a clear need for injunctive relief in order to be entitled to a preliminary injunction. Id. at 145. Shapiro has not demonstrated such a clear need, and the district court erred in granting the preliminary injunction.

In conclusion, the district court's grant of a preliminary injunction was an abuse of discretion. Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy is a reasonable and non-discriminatory method of allocating parking spaces, and the district court erred in concluding that it was required to make an exception for Shapiro. The judgment of the district court should be reversed.