ARGUMENT

The district court's order granting a preliminary injunction in favor of Phyllis Shapiro must be reversed because it misapplies the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, 42 U.S.C. § 3604(f). The Act requires housing providers to make reasonable accommodations in their policies and procedures to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. However, the Act does not mandate that housing providers immediately accommodate every request made by a disabled individual, regardless of the provider's existing policies.

The district court erred in concluding that Cadman Towers' first-come/first-served policy for allocating parking spaces is not a reasonable method of allocation. As the Supreme Court has noted, "absent a showing of discriminatory purpose or effect, a facially neutral policy is not violative of the Fair Housing Act." _Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman_, 455 U.S. 363, 374 (1982). Cadman Towers' policy is facially neutral and has been applied uniformly to all residents.

Moreover, the Act does not require housing providers to make exceptions to their policies unless doing so is necessary to afford a disabled individual an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. _See_ _Bhogaita v. Altamonte Heights Condominium Ass'n_, 765 F. Supp. 1544, 1548 (M.D. Fla. 1991). In this case, Shapiro has not demonstrated that an immediate allocation of a parking space is necessary to afford her an equal opportunity to use and enjoy her dwelling. While Shapiro's disability undoubtedly presents challenges, the record shows that she has managed to navigate her daily life without a parking space for an extended period.

The district court's order effectively requires Cadman Towers to give Shapiro priority over other residents on the waiting list, which is not a reasonable accommodation under the Act. _See_ _United States v. California Mobile Home Park Management Co._, 29 F.3d 1413, 1417 (9th Cir. 1994) (holding that a reasonable accommodation is one that is "necessary to afford [the disabled individual] an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling"). By granting Shapiro a parking space out of turn, the district court has imposed an undue burden on Cadman Towers and other residents who have been waiting for a parking space in accordance with the building's policy.

In light of the foregoing, this Court should reverse the district court's order granting a preliminary injunction in favor of Shapiro. The district court's misapplication of the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 undermines the legitimate interests of Cadman Towers and its residents, and its order should be vacated.

Cadman Towers is willing to reasonably accommodate Shapiro's disability once she becomes entitled to a parking space under the building's policy. At that time, the cooperative will work with Shapiro to assign her a parking space that is suitable for her needs. However, granting Shapiro a parking space out of turn is not a reasonable accommodation, and the district court's order should be reversed.