## ARGUMENT

The district court erred in granting partial summary judgment to Ybarra on his TCPA claims regarding the seven calls from DISH's 8047 number. The court's ruling was based on an overly broad interpretation of the TCPA's prohibition on calls using a prerecorded voice.

The TCPA prohibits making "any call" using an "artificial or prerecorded voice" to a cellular telephone number without prior express consent. 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1)(A)(iii). However, the statute does not prohibit the mere capacity to play a prerecorded message. Rather, it prohibits the actual use of an artificial or prerecorded voice. See In the Matter of Rules & Regulations Implementing the Tel. Consumer Prot. Act of 1991, 30 FCC Rcd. 7961, 7974 (2015) (stating that a prerecorded message is "played" when a call is answered by a human voice or voicemail).

Here, the Cisco Dialer used by DISH to make the calls from the 8047 number plays prerecorded messages only when a "positive voice" is detected, which may be either an actual human voice or a recorded voicemail greeting. The record shows that not all seven calls resulted in a "positive voice." In fact, three of the calls were met with an answering machine, and one call resulted in a "Data Error-No Value." (R. at 123-125). Under the TCPA, DISH is not liable for calls that were not answered by a human voice or voicemail, as no prerecorded message was "played." See In the Matter of Rules & Regulations Implementing the Tel. Consumer Prot. Act of 1991, 23 FCC Rcd. 559, 566 (2008) (stating that a prerecorded message is not "delivered" when a call is not answered).

The district court's conclusion that DISH's use of a prerecorded voice was sufficient to establish liability, regardless of whether Ybarra triggered it with a positive voice, is contrary to the FCC's interpretation of the TCPA. See In the Matter of Rules & Regulations Implementing the Tel. Consumer Prot. Act of 1991, 30 FCC Rcd. at 7974. Therefore, the district court should have granted summary judgment to DISH on the four calls that were not answered by a human voice or voicemail.

DISH has conceded liability for the three calls that were answered by a human voice or voicemail. (Appellee's Br. at 10). However, the district court erred in granting summary judgment to Ybarra on the other four calls. This Court should reverse the district court's grant of partial summary judgment and remand with instructions to grant summary judgment to DISH on the four calls that did not result in a "positive voice."