ARGUMENT

I.

The district court erred in designating Furlow as an "armed career criminal" under the ACCA and a "career offender" under the Sentencing Guidelines.

A.

Furlow's prior convictions for distribution of crack cocaine in South Carolina and first-degree arson in Georgia do not qualify as predicates under the ACCA and the career offender provision.

1.

Furlow's South Carolina conviction for distribution of crack cocaine is not a "serious drug offense" under the ACCA or a "controlled substance offense" under the Guidelines.

The ACCA defines a "serious drug offense" as an offense under state law involving manufacturing, distributing, or possessing with intent to manufacture or distribute a controlled substance "for which a maximum term of imprisonment of ten years or more is prescribed by law." 18 U.S.C. § 924(e)(2)(A)(ii). Although Furlow's South Carolina conviction for distribution of crack cocaine was punishable by up to 15 years' imprisonment under S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-375(B)(3) (2016), the statute under which he was convicted has since been amended to reduce the maximum term of imprisonment. See S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-375(B)(3) (2020). However, this change in the law does not affect Furlow's designation as an armed career criminal because the ACCA looks to the maximum term of imprisonment "prescribed by law" at the time of the prior conviction. See United States v. Harp, 406 F.3d 242, 246 (4th Cir. 2005) (holding that the ACCA's "maximum term of imprisonment ... prescribed by law" refers to the maximum term available at the time of the defendant's prior conviction).

The Guidelines define a "controlled substance offense" as an offense under federal or state law punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year that prohibits the manufacture, import, export, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance. USSG § 4B1.2(b). Furlow's conviction for distribution of crack cocaine meets this definition because it was punishable by up to 15 years' imprisonment under South Carolina law at the time of his conviction. See United States v. Ward, 972 F.3d 364, 373 (4th Cir. 2020) (holding that a prior conviction for distribution of cocaine base under S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-375(B) qualifies as a controlled substance offense under the Guidelines).

However, Furlow argues that his conviction for distribution of crack cocaine does not qualify as a predicate because the South Carolina statute under which he was convicted is indivisible and criminalizes conduct that is not a controlled substance offense. See United States v. Dozier, 848 F.3d 180, 183-84 (4th Cir. 2017) (holding that a prior conviction under a divisible statute requires application of the modified categorical approach to determine whether the conviction qualifies as a predicate). Although the Fourth Circuit has not directly addressed the divisibility of S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-375(B), it has held that a similar statute, S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-370, is divisible. See United States v. Williams, 982 F.3d 905, 908-09 (4th Cir. 2020). Therefore, Furlow's conviction for distribution of crack cocaine likely qualifies as a controlled substance offense under the Guidelines.

2.

Furlow's Georgia conviction for first-degree arson is not a "violent felony" under the ACCA or a "crime of violence" under the Guidelines.

The ACCA and the Guidelines both enumerate "arson" as a qualifying predicate. See 18 U.S.C. § 924(e)(2)(B)(ii); USSG § 4B1.2(a)(2). However, the Fourth Circuit has held that a prior conviction for arson under a state statute that is broader than the generic definition of arson does not qualify as a violent felony under the ACCA. See United States v. Gomez, 690 F.3d 194, 199-200 (4th Cir. 2012) (holding that a prior conviction for arson under a Maryland statute that criminalized the burning of personal property not belonging to the defendant did not qualify as a violent felony under the ACCA because it was broader than the generic definition of arson).

The Georgia statute under which Furlow was convicted, Ga. Code Ann. § 16-7-60, defines first-degree arson as knowingly damaging a dwelling or other specified structure by means of fire or explosion, without regard to whether the defendant had the intent to damage the property. See Ga. Code Ann. § 16-7-60(a)(1)-(5). This statute is broader than the generic definition of arson, which typically requires an intent to damage or destroy property. See United States v. Misleveck, 735 F.3d 983, 988 (7th Cir. 2013) (defining generic arson as "the intentional or malicious burning of property"). Therefore, Furlow's conviction for first-degree arson under Ga. Code Ann. § 16-7-60 does not qualify as a violent felony under the ACCA or a crime of violence under the Guidelines.

B.

Without the erroneous predicates, Furlow does not have the requisite number of convictions to be designated as an armed career criminal or a career offender.

Because Furlow's convictions for distribution of crack cocaine and first-degree arson do not qualify as predicates under the ACCA and the Guidelines, he lacks the requisite number of convictions to be designated as an armed career criminal or a career offender. Therefore, the district court's sentencing enhancements under the ACCA and the career offender provision were erroneous, and Furlow's sentence should be vacated and remanded for resentencing.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, Furlow respectfully requests that this Court vacate his sentence and remand for resentencing.