## Argument

The district court erred in dismissing Buckles's 28 U.S.C. § 2255 motion as untimely. The timeliness of Buckles's § 2255 motion hinges on whether his petition for certiorari was timely filed. If our order recalling the mandate restarted the clock for the 90-day period to petition for certiorari, then Buckles's petition was timely, and so was his subsequent § 2255 motion.

The Supreme Court's rules dictate that a petition for certiorari must be filed within 90 days after the entry of the judgment or order sought to be reviewed. Sup.Ct. R. 13(1). The clock starts running from the date of the denial of rehearing, unless the lower court entertains an untimely petition for rehearing. Sup.Ct. R. 13(3). In this case, our court denied rehearing on April 3, 2007, and the 90-day clock would have started running from that date, making Buckles's petition for certiorari due on July 2, 2007.

However, Buckles argues that our order recalling the mandate on June 12, 2007, restarted the clock. Although our order was not explicitly styled as a recall of the mandate, it effectively achieved the same result by reissuing the mandate on June 20, 2007. This court has previously held that a recall of the mandate can restart the clock for filing a petition for certiorari. See United States v. Garcia, 210 F.3d 1058, 1060-61 (9th Cir. 2000) (holding that a recall of the mandate restarted the clock for filing a petition for certiorari).

Moreover, Buckles's reliance on the advice provided by the Ninth Circuit Clerk's office to his sister, Bonnie Weinberger, is reasonable. According to Buckles's declaration, the Clerk's office told Weinberger that the timeline for filing the writ of certiorari would be stayed until a ruling was made on the petition for appointment of counsel and a new mandate date would be issued. This advice led Buckles to believe that he needed to file his petition for certiorari within 90 days of the recalled mandate. Given the circumstances, Buckles's interpretation of the Clerk's statement is reasonable.

In the alternative, if Buckles's petition for certiorari was untimely, he is entitled to equitable tolling due to the misconduct by his attorney and the misinformation provided by the Ninth Circuit Clerk's office. The Supreme Court has held that equitable tolling is available in cases where a petitioner has been prevented from filing a timely petition due to circumstances beyond their control. See Holland v. Florida, 130 S. Ct. 2549, 2562 (2010) (holding that equitable tolling is available where a petitioner shows that they have been pursuing their rights diligently and that some extraordinary circumstance stood in their way). Buckles's inability to obtain representation for his certiorari petition and the misleading advice from the Clerk's office constitute extraordinary circumstances that justify equitable tolling.

In conclusion, Buckles's § 2255 motion was timely filed, either because his petition for certiorari was timely or because he is entitled to equitable tolling. The district court's dismissal of his § 2255 motion as untimely should be reversed.