ARGUMENT

The district court erred in designating Bryshun Genard Furlow as an "armed career criminal" under the Armed Career Criminal Act (the "ACCA") and as a "career offender" under the Sentencing Guidelines. Furlow's prior convictions for distribution of crack cocaine in South Carolina and first-degree arson in Georgia do not qualify as predicate offenses under the ACCA and the Guidelines.

I.

Furlow's South Carolina Conviction for Distribution of Crack Cocaine is Not a Predicate "Serious Drug Offense" or "Controlled Substance Offense"

The ACCA defines a "serious drug offense" as an offense under state law involving manufacturing, distributing, or possessing with intent to manufacture or distribute a controlled substance, for which a maximum term of imprisonment of ten years or more is prescribed by law. 18 U.S.C. § 924(e)(2)(A)(ii). The Guidelines define a "controlled substance offense" similarly, as an offense under federal or state law punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year that prohibits the manufacture, import, export, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance, or the possession of a controlled substance with intent to manufacture, import, export, distribute, or dispense. USSG § 4B1.2(b).

Furlow's 2016 South Carolina conviction for distribution of crack cocaine is not a predicate "serious drug offense" under the ACCA because the maximum term of imprisonment prescribed by South Carolina law for that offense is not ten years or more. See S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-375(B)(2) (providing a maximum sentence of five years for a first offense). As the Supreme Court has explained, the ACCA's definition of a "serious drug offense" requires that the maximum term of imprisonment be "prescribed by law" for the specific offense of conviction. See United States v. Rodriquez, 553 U.S. 377, 391 (2008) (quoting 18 U.S.C. § 924(e)(2)(A)(ii)). Because Furlow's South Carolina conviction does not meet this requirement, it is not a predicate "serious drug offense" under the ACCA.

Similarly, Furlow's South Carolina conviction is not a predicate "controlled substance offense" under the Guidelines because it is not punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year as a result of Furlow's particular offense and prior record. See USSG § 4B1.2(b); S.C. Code Ann. § 44-53-375(B)(2). The district court therefore erred in relying on this conviction as a predicate offense for purposes of the ACCA and the Guidelines.

II.

Furlow's Georgia Conviction for First-Degree Arson is Not a Predicate "Violent Felony" or "Crime of Violence"

The ACCA and the Guidelines both enumerate "arson" as a qualifying predicate offense. See 18 U.S.C. § 924(e)(2)(B)(ii); USSG § 4B1.2(a)(2). However, the generic definition of arson requires that the offense involve "maliciously damaging or destroying any building or other structure, or any real property, or personal property" belonging to another. See United States v. Misleveck, 735 F.3d 983, 988 (7th Cir. 2013) (citing United States v. Whaley, 552 F.3d 904, 907 (8th Cir. 2009)). Georgia's first-degree arson statute, under which Furlow was convicted, is broader than the generic definition of arson because it criminalizes damage to unoccupied buildings and structures, as well as damage to property belonging to the defendant himself. See Ga. Code Ann. § 16-7-60(a). As the Eleventh Circuit has held, a conviction under a similar statute is not a predicate "violent felony" under the ACCA because it does not require that the defendant's conduct pose a serious risk of physical injury to another. See United States v. Palomino Garcia, 606 F.3d 1317, 1336 (11th Cir. 2010).

Because Furlow's Georgia conviction for first-degree arson does not meet the generic definition of arson, it is not a predicate "violent felony" or "crime of violence" under the ACCA and the Guidelines. The district court therefore erred in relying on this conviction as a predicate offense for purposes of the ACCA and the Guidelines.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, Furlow's designations as an "armed career criminal" under the ACCA and as a "career offender" under the Guidelines should be vacated, and his sentence should be remanded for resentencing.