The Eighth Amendment forbids only those punishments that are both cruel and unusual. Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153, 171 (1976). A punishment is unusual if it is contrary to the “evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958) (plurality opinion). Those standards are measured “by objective factors to the maximum possible extent,” foremost among them “the legislation enacted by the country’s legislatures.” Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302, 331 (1989).

At the time of Atkins’s resentencing, only two States had enacted statutes barring execution of the mentally retarded. Id. at 334. That legislative pattern led this Court to conclude that “the two state statutes prohibiting execution of the mentally retarded, even when added to the 14 States that have rejected capital punishment completely, do not provide sufficient evidence” of a national consensus. Id. The same objective data remain unchanged here. Because the punishment continues to be authorized by the overwhelming majority of jurisdictions that retain the death penalty, it cannot be deemed unusual.

The Eighth Amendment also requires that a punishment not be excessive, meaning it must not fail to “accord with the dignity of man” by being grossly disproportionate to the offense or by serving no legitimate penological purpose. Coker v. Georgia, 433 U.S. 584, 592 (1977) (plurality opinion). Mental retardation is a factor that may lessen culpability, yet it does not render every such offender incapable of acting with the degree of moral culpability that capital punishment presupposes. Penry, 492 U.S. at 336-37. Juries remain capable of considering retardation as a mitigating circumstance under existing sentencing procedures. Id. at 340. Where such individualized consideration occurs, the sentence is not disproportionate.

Petitioner’s reliance on subsequent state enactments cannot override the constitutional baseline established in Penry. That decision remains controlling until this Court determines that objective indicia have shifted sufficiently to demonstrate a new national consensus. Because no such consensus existed when Atkins was sentenced, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Virginia should be affirmed.