ARGUMENT

The three-year limitations period in 29 U.S.C. § 1113(2) bars an action once the plaintiff possesses actual knowledge of the facts constituting the breach. The Ninth Circuit erred by requiring, in addition, knowledge that those facts rendered the fiduciary’s conduct imprudent.

Section 1113(2) provides that an action for breach of fiduciary duty “may not be commenced … more than three years after the earliest date on which the plaintiff had actual knowledge of the breach or violation.” The statute distinguishes this actual-knowledge trigger from the repealed constructive-knowledge provision that once measured the period from the filing of a report “from which [the plaintiff] could reasonably be expected to have obtained knowledge.” Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, Pub. L. No. 100-203, § 9342(b), 101 Stat. 1330. The text therefore requires only that the plaintiff in fact knew the underlying facts, not that the plaintiff appreciated their legal significance or that the conduct was imprudent.

This Court and the courts of appeals have long held that knowledge of illegality is unnecessary. In Blanton v. Anzalone, 760 F.2d 989 (9th Cir. 1985), the Ninth Circuit stated that the period “is triggered by the [plaintiff’s] knowledge of the transaction that constituted the alleged violation, not by their knowledge of the law.” Id. at 991-92. Meagher v. International Ass’n of Machinists & Aerospace Workers Pension Plan, 856 F.2d 1418 (9th Cir. 1988), reiterated the same rule: the plaintiff “had knowledge of the transaction, though he may not have known at the time that the reduction in benefits was unlawful under ERISA.” Id. at 1423. Ziegler v. Connecticut General Life Insurance Co., 916 F.2d 548 (9th Cir. 1990), applied the identical principle after the 1987 amendment, holding the claim time-barred once the plaintiff learned the facts of the challenged transaction. Id. at 552.

The disclosures Intel furnished to Sulyma supplied precisely those facts. The Fund Fact Sheets, Summary Plan Descriptions, and website postings identified the asset allocations, the inclusion of alternative investments, and the performance consequences. Once Sulyma received that information, he possessed actual knowledge of the investments whose prudence he now challenges. Requiring further proof that he subjectively understood those investments to be imprudent would reintroduce the very constructive-knowledge standard Congress eliminated and would nullify the three-year period Congress deliberately retained.

The judgment of the Ninth Circuit should therefore be reversed.