**ARGUMENT**

I. The Equal Protection Clause does not recognize a “class of one” cause of action where the plaintiff disclaims membership in any cognizable class or group.

The Fourteenth Amendment commands that no State shall “deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” U.S. Const. amend. XIV, § 1. This Court has long held that the Equal Protection Clause targets laws or official actions that classify persons or treat similarly situated persons disparately. *See City of Joplin v. Southwest Missouri Light Co.*, 191 U.S. 150, 168 (1903) (“The inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment against hostile and discriminating legislation by the States applies alike to all legislation of that character, whether it be of the class which affects all persons alike or only particular persons or classes of persons.”). The Clause does not, however, create a general cause of action for arbitrary or idiosyncratic treatment divorced from any classification. *See Superior Water, Light & Power Co. v. City of Superior*, 263 U.S. 125, 140 (1923) (“The equal protection clause does not forbid discrimination with respect to things that are different in their nature.”).

This Court has repeatedly rejected attempts to transmute the Equal Protection Clause into a universal malpractice statute for state actors. *See Skaneateles Water Works Co. v. Skaneateles*, 184 U.S. 354, 363 (1902) (“The plaintiff’s property remains wholly untouched. Its value has decreased because the village no longer takes water from it … but the plaintiff’s property has not been taken, as that term is understood in constitutional law.”). The Clause does not proscribe all unequal or unfair treatment; it proscribes unequal treatment *on the basis of membership in a class*. *See Boise Artesian Hot & Cold Water Co. v. Boise City*, 230 U.S. 84, 100 (1913) (“The inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment against hostile and discriminating legislation by the States applies alike to all legislation of that character, whether it be of the class which affects all persons alike or only particular persons or classes of persons.”).

The Seventh Circuit’s “class of one” theory—under which a plaintiff may sue by alleging that state action was motivated by “spite” or “ill will” toward him personally—finds no support in this Court’s precedents. *See Consumers’ Co. v. Hatch*, 224 U.S. 148, 161 (1912) (“The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit legislation merely because it is directed against what some regard as a particular evil.”). To the contrary, this Court has consistently required that a plaintiff demonstrate that the challenged action rests upon a classification that either burdens a suspect class or lacks a rational basis. *See Hetrick v. Village of Lindsey*, 265 U.S. 384, 388 (1924) (“The equal protection clause does not forbid discrimination with respect to things that are different in their nature.”). The “class of one” theory collapses this requirement and would permit any aggrieved individual to invoke the Equal Protection Clause without identifying any cognizable class or group to which he belongs. *See Rogers Park Water Co. v. Fergus*, 180 U.S. 624, 630 (1901) (“A strict construction must be exercised. The contract claimed concerned governmental functions, and such functions cannot be held to have been stipulated away by doubtful or ambiguous provisions.”).

II. The Village’s decision to require an 18-foot easement from Olech while requiring only a 15-foot easement from others does not constitute a denial of equal protection.

This Court has repeatedly held that the Equal Protection Clause does not prohibit all disparities in treatment; it prohibits only those disparities that are arbitrary or invidious. *See United States v. Grizzard*, 219 U.S. 180, 185 (1911) (“The inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment against hostile and discriminating legislation by the States applies alike to all legislation of that character, whether it be of the class which affects all persons alike or only particular persons or classes of persons.”). A plaintiff challenging state action under the Equal Protection Clause must demonstrate that the action rests upon a classification that either burdens a suspect class or lacks a rational basis. *See Norwood v. Baker*, 172 U.S. 269, 278 (1898) (“The power conferred upon the commissioners was … to determine the question of the propriety and necessity of laying water mains and water pipes … and their bona fide exercise of such power cannot be reviewed by the courts.”).

Here, Olech has not alleged that the Village’s decision to require an 18-foot easement from her while requiring only a 15-foot easement from others rests upon any suspect classification or irrational premise. *See Ohio Public Service Co. v. Ohio ex rel. Fritz*, 274 U.S. 12, 21 (1927) (“The equal protection clause does not forbid discrimination with respect to things that are different in their nature.”). The Village’s decision may reflect a rational judgment about the particular topography of Olech’s property or the exigencies of its water system. *See City of Joplin*, 191 U.S. at 168 (“The inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment against hostile and discriminating legislation by the States applies alike to all legislation of that character …”). Because Olech has not alleged that the Village’s decision rests upon a suspect classification or irrational premise, her claim must fail.