ARGUMENT

The Eighth Amendment forbids only those punishments that are both cruel and unusual. U.S. Const. amend. VIII. A punishment is unusual if it is contrary to the “evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958) (plurality opinion). When the Court last addressed the question, it concluded that “the two state statutes prohibiting execution of the mentally retarded, even when added to the 14 States that have rejected capital punishment completely, do not provide sufficient evidence” of a national consensus. Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302, 334 (1989). That conclusion remains sound.

Objective indicia continue to show that a majority of death-penalty jurisdictions authorize capital punishment for mentally retarded offenders who commit the most heinous crimes. Thirty-eight States and the federal government have capital statutes; only two of those jurisdictions bar execution of the mentally retarded. The remaining thirty-six jurisdictions, representing the considered judgment of their citizens through their elected representatives, have declined to adopt such a categorical prohibition. This legislative landscape is indistinguishable from the one the Court examined in Penry.

Nor does the punishment offend the second, independent requirement of the Eighth Amendment—that it not be grossly disproportionate to the offender’s culpability. Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153, 173 (1976) (joint opinion). Mental retardation, while relevant to mitigation, does not invariably negate the moral culpability that justifies capital punishment for the most aggravated murders. The sentencer remains free to consider the defendant’s intellectual disability, along with all other mitigating evidence, in determining whether death is the appropriate sentence. See Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U.S. 104, 113-114 (1982).

Petitioner’s reliance on clinical definitions of mental retardation does not alter the constitutional calculus. Those definitions are useful for diagnosis and treatment, but they supply no basis for displacing the judgment of state legislatures on the ultimate question of criminal responsibility. The Eighth Amendment “does not mandate adoption of any particular penological theory.” Harmelin v. Michigan, 501 U.S. 957, 999 (1991) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in the judgment). States may therefore conclude that the retributive and deterrent purposes of capital punishment retain force even when the offender’s intellectual functioning is impaired.

Because no national consensus forbids the practice and because the punishment is not disproportionate, the judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court should be affirmed.