**ARGUMENT**

The Eighth Amendment’s prohibition of “cruel and unusual punishments” must be interpreted in light of the “evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958) (plurality opinion). Where a national consensus emerges against a particular punishment, this Court has held that the Constitution forbids its imposition. See Francis v. Resweber, 329 U.S. 459, 464 (1947) (plurality opinion) (“The traditional humanity of modern civilization” informs the Eighth Amendment’s meaning). The execution of persons with intellectual disability offends these standards.

The Court has long recognized that the Eighth Amendment “draws its meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” Trop, 356 U.S. at 101. In Weems v. United States, 217 U.S. 349 (1910), the Court invalidated a sentence of *cadena temporal* for falsifying public documents, observing that the punishment was “more than imprisonment” and “more than hard labor” and thus “cruel in its excess of imprisonment.” *Id.* at 378–79. Similarly, in Trop, the Court held that denationalization for wartime desertion violated the Eighth Amendment, emphasizing that the Constitution “must draw its meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” 356 U.S. at 101. These precedents establish that the Eighth Amendment is not static; it reflects contemporary values regarding the propriety of punishment.

A national consensus has developed against executing persons with intellectual disability. In Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302 (1989), the Court acknowledged that “there is a much broader social and professional consensus against imposing the death penalty on mentally retarded persons than there was at the time of *Furman* [v. Georgia, 408 U.S. 238 (1972)] or *Gregg* [v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153 (1976)]” (*Penry*, 492 U.S. at 334). This consensus is reflected in the laws of the states. As of 2002, twelve states and the District of Columbia prohibited the execution of persons with intellectual disability. See *Penry*, 492 U.S. at 334 n.1 (citing state statutes and legislative enactments). This trend demonstrates that society has come to regard such executions as excessive and disproportionate.

The Court has repeatedly invalidated punishments that are disproportionate to the offense or the offender’s culpability. In Coker v. Georgia, 433 U.S. 584 (1977), the Court held that the death penalty is disproportionate for the rape of an adult woman, reasoning that “the penalty of death is grossly disproportionate and excessive” for that crime. *Id.* at 592. Similarly, in Enmund v. Florida, 458 U.S. 782 (1982), the Court found the death penalty disproportionate for a defendant who did not kill, attempt to kill, or intend to kill, emphasizing that “the Eighth Amendment bars not only those punishments that are ‘barbaric’ but also those that are ‘excessive.’” *Id.* at 787 (quoting *Furman*, 408 U.S. at 271 (Stewart, J., concurring)). Just as the Court has recognized that the death penalty is excessive for crimes that do not involve the taking of life, it must recognize that the death penalty is excessive for offenders who lack the requisite culpability due to intellectual disability.

The execution of persons with intellectual disability is cruel because such offenders lack the moral culpability necessary to justify the death penalty. In Powell v. Texas, 392 U.S. 514 (1968), the Court recognized that “[i]t is unlikely that any State at this moment in history would attempt to make it a criminal offense for a mentally normal person to be drunk in public.” *Id.* at 535 (plurality opinion). The Court reasoned that the state could not punish a person for a condition that robbed him of the power of choice. *Id.* Similarly, intellectual disability diminishes an offender’s capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of his conduct or to conform his actions to the law. See *Penry*, 492 U.S. at 333 (noting that “mental retardation is a condition that renders the defendant less able to make a calculated, rational decision”).

The Court has long held that the Eighth Amendment prohibits punishments that are disproportionate to the offender’s blameworthiness. In O’Neil v. Vermont, 144 U.S. 323 (1892), the Court observed that “[p]unishments are cruel when they involve torture or a lingering death; but the punishment of imprisonment for a long term of years might be and often has been so excessive as to be within the constitutional prohibition.” *Id.* at 339–40. In Weems, the Court invalidated a sentence of *cadena temporal* as “cruel in its excess of imprisonment,” reasoning that the punishment was “out of all proportion to the offense.” 217 U.S. at 378–79. Just as a sentence of *cadena temporal* was excessive for falsifying public documents, the execution of a person with intellectual disability is excessive for capital murder.

Finally, the execution of persons with intellectual disability offends the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition of “cruel and unusual punishments” because such offenders are less able to assist in their own defense and more likely to be wrongfully convicted. In Powell, the Court recognized that “[t]he state may not punish a person for being drunk in public if his intoxication was involuntary.” 392 U.S. at 535. Similarly, intellectual disability may impair an offender’s ability to understand legal proceedings or to communicate effectively with counsel. See *Penry*, 492 U.S. at 333. The risk of wrongful execution is heightened where the offender lacks the capacity to assist in his defense.

For these reasons, the execution of persons with intellectual disability violates the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition of “cruel and unusual punishments.” The judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court should be reversed.