The Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series on family values and child rearing constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech.

The Supreme Court has established that the extent of permissible governmental regulation of expressive activity on publicly owned property depends on the character of the public property in question (Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 44 (1983)). The Court has identified three categories of publicly owned property: traditional public forums, limited or designated public forums, and nonpublic forums (Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S. 788, 802 (1985)).

The Center Moriches School District facilities are a limited public forum, as they have been opened for use by certain groups and for certain purposes (Hazelwood School Dist. v. Kuhlmeier, 484 U.S. 260, 267 (1988)). In a limited public forum, the government may not exclude speech based on its content unless the exclusion is viewpoint-neutral and reasonable in light of the forum's purpose (Perry, 460 U.S. at 46).

The School District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series is not viewpoint-neutral, as it is based on the religious content of the speech. The District's rule prohibiting the use of school facilities for "religious purposes" is a content-based exclusion that discriminates against religious speech (see Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 269-70 (1981)). The fact that the District has allowed other groups to use the facilities for various purposes does not justify the exclusion of Lamb's Chapel, as the District's policy and practice have created a limited public forum that is open to a wide range of speakers and subjects.

The Second Circuit's reliance on the fact that the prior uses of the facilities were not "religious in any meaningful way" is misplaced. The Supreme Court has held that a content-based exclusion is invalid even if it is applied in a viewpoint-neutral manner (see Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the Univ. of Va., 515 U.S. 819, 828-29 (1995)). The District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series is not justified by a compelling state interest, and it is not narrowly drawn to serve that interest (Perry, 460 U.S. at 45).

The Establishment Clause does not justify the District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel. In fact, allowing Lamb's Chapel to use the facilities would not violate the Establishment Clause, as the use would be for a limited purpose and would not imply government endorsement of the Chapel's views (see Mergens, 496 U.S. at 248-50). The District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request is a content-based exclusion that violates the First Amendment's freedom of speech.

In conclusion, the Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech. The judgment of the Second Circuit should be reversed.