The Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series on family values and child rearing constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech.

The Supreme Court has established that the extent of permissible governmental regulation of expressive activity on publicly owned property depends on the character of the public property in question. Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 44 (1983). The Court has identified three categories of publicly owned property: traditional public forums, limited or designated public forums, and nonpublic forums. Id. at 45-46. The Center Moriches School District facilities fall into the category of limited public forums, as they have been opened for use by certain groups or for the discussion of certain subjects.

In a limited public forum, the government may not exclude speech based on its content unless the exclusion is reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum and is viewpoint-neutral. See Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S. 788, 806 (1985). The School District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series, which is a religious-oriented discussion on family values and child rearing, is not viewpoint-neutral. The District's policy of excluding religious groups from using its facilities is a content-based exclusion that discriminates against Lamb's Chapel's viewpoint.

The Second Circuit erred in holding that the School District's facilities were not opened to religious uses by policy or practice. The District's practice of allowing various community groups to use its facilities, including groups that discuss topics related to family values and child rearing, demonstrates that the facilities are a limited public forum. See Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 267-68 (1981) (university's policy of accommodating student meetings created a forum generally open for use by student groups).

The School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use its facilities is not justified by a legitimate government concern. The District's concern about avoiding an Establishment Clause violation is unfounded, as the use of its facilities by Lamb's Chapel would not imply state endorsement of the Chapel's religious views. See Board of Educ. of the Westside Community Schs. v. Mergens, 496 U.S. 226, 248-50 (1990) (allowing student religious groups to meet on school premises does not violate the Establishment Clause).

In conclusion, the School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use its facilities for a religious-oriented film series constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech. The judgment of the Second Circuit should be reversed.