The American Dental Association (ADA) respectfully submits that an employer's conduct must be "egregious" or "outrageous," independent of its state of mind, to sustain an award of punitive damages under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. The Civil Rights Act of 1991 allows punitive damages when the defendant engages in a discriminatory practice "with malice or with reckless indifference to the federally protected rights of an aggrieved individual." 42 U.S.C. § 1981a(b)(1). Although this standard appears to focus solely on the employer's state of mind, the legislative history and relevant case law suggest that the employer's conduct must also be sufficiently egregious.

The legislative history of the Civil Rights Act of 1991 indicates that Congress intended to limit punitive damages to "extraordinarily egregious cases." 137 Cong. Rec. S 15473 (Oct. 30, 1991) (Interp. Mem. of Sen. Dole et al.). This interpretation is consistent with the common law trend requiring something more than mere intent for punitive damages in intentional tort cases. See Restatement (Second) of Torts § 908 (1979). The courts have also applied this principle in the context of § 1981, which prohibits racial discrimination in contract making and enforcement. See, e.g., Emmel v. Coca-Cola Bottling Co., 95 F.3d 627, 636 (7th Cir. 1996) (requiring a "higher hurdle" for punitive damages under § 1981).

Furthermore, the Supreme Court has emphasized that punitive damages are meant to punish and deter particularly egregious conduct. See Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30, 54 (1983) (requiring "reckless or callous disregard for the plaintiff's rights" for punitive damages under § 1983). This principle is applicable to Title VII cases, as the statute is designed to deter and punish intentional discrimination.

In this case, the District Court properly denied Kolstad's request for punitive damages. Although the jury found that the ADA intentionally discriminated against Kolstad, the evidence does not demonstrate that the ADA's conduct was "egregious" or "outrageous." The ADA's actions, while discriminatory, were not so extreme as to warrant punitive damages.

In conclusion, the ADA respectfully submits that an employer's conduct must be "egregious" or "outrageous," independent of its state of mind, to sustain an award of punitive damages under Title VII. The Court should affirm the District Court's denial of punitive damages and hold that the ADA's conduct, while discriminatory, was not sufficiently egregious to warrant punitive damages.