The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not give rise to a cause of action on behalf of a "class of one" where the plaintiff did not allege membership in a class or group. The Seventh Circuit's decision to the contrary is an unwarranted expansion of equal protection jurisprudence.

The Equal Protection Clause is traditionally understood to protect against discrimination based on membership in a particular class or group. See, e.g., Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954) (striking down segregation in public schools); Loving v. Virginia, 388 U.S. 1 (1967) (invalidating laws prohibiting interracial marriage). The Clause is not intended to provide a cause of action for individualized grievances unrelated to class-based discrimination.

In this case, respondent Olech alleged that the Village of Willowbrook's demand for a 33-foot easement was motivated by a "spiteful effort to 'get' her" and was not rationally related to a legitimate state interest. However, Olech did not allege that she was a member of a particular class or group that was being discriminated against. The Seventh Circuit's holding that a plaintiff can state an equal protection claim by alleging that state action was motivated by a personal vendetta against her is an improper extension of the Equal Protection Clause.

The Supreme Court has consistently held that the Equal Protection Clause is concerned with protecting against class-based discrimination. See, e.g., Personnel Administrator of Massachusetts v. Feeney, 442 U.S. 256, 272 (1979) ("'[D]iscriminatory purpose’ ... implies that the decisionmaker ... selected or reaffirmed a particular course of action at least in part 'because of,' not merely 'in spite of,' its adverse effects upon an identifiable group."). Olech's claim does not implicate this concern, as she does not allege membership in a protected class.

The Seventh Circuit's decision is also at odds with the principle that the Equal Protection Clause is not a "federal good government" provision. See, e.g., Snowden v. Hughes, 321 U.S. 1, 11 (1944) ("The unlawful administration by state officers of a state statute fair on its face, resulting in its unequal application to those who are entitled to be treated alike, is not a denial of equal protection unless there is shown to be present in it an element of intentional or purposeful discrimination."). Olech's claim is, in essence, a challenge to the Village's decision-making process, which is not cognizable under the Equal Protection Clause.

In conclusion, the Equal Protection Clause does not provide a cause of action for a "class of one" where the plaintiff does not allege membership in a class or group. The Seventh Circuit's decision to the contrary is an unwarranted expansion of equal protection jurisprudence, and this Court should reverse the judgment below.