The Equal Protection Clause does not give rise to a cause of action on behalf of a "class of one." The Seventh Circuit's holding that a plaintiff can allege an equal protection violation by asserting that state action was motivated solely by a "spiteful effort to 'get' him for reasons wholly unrelated to any legitimate state objective" is an unwarranted expansion of the Equal Protection Clause.

The Equal Protection Clause is traditionally understood to protect against discrimination based on membership in a particular class or group. As the Supreme Court held in Snowden v. Hughes, 321 U.S. 1 (1944), the Clause is intended to "secure equal protection to all persons within the State's jurisdiction against intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned by the express terms of a statute or by its improper execution through duly constituted agents." Id. at 8. The Court emphasized that the Clause is concerned with "discrimination between individuals or groups of individuals" and that "unequal application of a statute fair on its face" can be a denial of equal protection. Id. at 8-9.

However, the Court has never held that the Equal Protection Clause protects individuals from arbitrary government action absent membership in a particular class or group. In fact, the Court has suggested that the Clause is not implicated in such cases. For example, in Williamson v. Lee Optical Co., 348 U.S. 483 (1955), the Court held that the Equal Protection Clause allows states to regulate businesses in a way that may seem arbitrary or unfair to individual businesses, as long as the regulation is not based on a suspect classification. The Court stated that the Clause "is offended only if the classification rests on grounds wholly irrelevant to the achievement of the State's objective." Id. at 489.

Similarly, in Kotch v. Board of River Port Pilot Commissioners, 330 U.S. 552 (1947), the Court held that a state's appointment of pilots was not subject to equal protection challenge simply because it was based on nepotism or personal favoritism. The Court stated that the Equal Protection Clause "does not require that a statute be so drawn as to avoid all discrimination." Id. at 556.

In this case, respondent Olech's claim is based solely on the Village's alleged "spiteful effort" to require her to grant a larger easement than other property owners. However, this is not a claim of discrimination based on membership in a particular class or group. Rather, it is a claim of arbitrary government action, which is not cognizable under the Equal Protection Clause.

The Seventh Circuit's holding to the contrary is an unwarranted expansion of the Equal Protection Clause. By allowing "class of one" claims, the court is effectively creating a federal constitutional tort that is not grounded in the text or history of the Clause. This Court should reverse the Seventh Circuit's holding and reaffirm the traditional understanding of the Equal Protection Clause as protecting against discrimination based on membership in a particular class or group.