The execution of Daryl Renard Atkins, who is mentally retarded, does not violate the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on "cruel and unusual punishment." The Virginia Supreme Court correctly relied on Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302 (1989), in rejecting Atkins' contention that his mental retardation precludes a death sentence.

In Penry, this Court held that the Eighth Amendment does not categorically prohibit the execution of mentally retarded persons. Id. at 340. Although the Court acknowledged that mental retardation can diminish a person's culpability, it concluded that the Constitution does not mandate a blanket exemption from the death penalty for the mentally retarded. Id. at 334-35.

Atkins argues that societal attitudes towards the execution of the mentally retarded have evolved since Penry, rendering it "cruel and unusual" under the Eighth Amendment. However, while some states have enacted legislation exempting the mentally retarded from capital punishment, see Brief for Petitioner at 12-13, this trend is not sufficient to establish a national consensus against executing the mentally retarded.

The Eighth Amendment's prohibition on "cruel and unusual punishment" is informed by "evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society." Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958). However, as this Court has noted, "the Amendment 'must draw its meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society' but 'it is not the function of this Court to be the final arbiter of the standards of criminal justice.'" Stanford v. Kentucky, 492 U.S. 361, 369 (1989) (quoting Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153, 173, 175 (1976)). The fact that some states have chosen to exempt the mentally retarded from capital punishment does not necessarily indicate a national consensus against doing so.

Furthermore, Atkins' mental retardation was considered during the penalty phase of his trial, and the jury was able to take it into account when determining his sentence. See Johnson v. Texas, 509 U.S. 350, 368-69 (1993) (noting that a jury's consideration of a defendant's mitigating evidence is a crucial aspect of the sentencing process). The jury's decision to sentence Atkins to death despite his mental retardation suggests that they found his culpability sufficient to warrant the ultimate penalty.

In light of Penry and the lack of a clear national consensus against executing the mentally retarded, Atkins' execution does not violate the Eighth Amendment. The Virginia Supreme Court correctly applied Penry in affirming Atkins' death sentence, and this Court should affirm that judgment.