The Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause does not guarantee a defendant the right to present expert evidence about his mental state to negate the prosecution's evidence of criminal intent, separate from an insanity defense. The Supreme Court has long recognized that states have significant latitude in defining the elements of crimes and the defenses thereto. See Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S. 197, 201-02 (1977) ("[T]he Due Process Clause requires the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt all of the elements included in the definition of the offense of which the defendant is charged.").

In this case, Arizona law places the burden on the defendant to prove insanity, and the trial court properly limited the use of Clark's expert evidence to that defense. Arizona's law is consistent with the Supreme Court's holding in Clark v. Arizona is not directly on point, but the Court's decision in Montana v. Egelhoff, 518 U.S. 37 (1996), is instructive. In Egelhoff, the Court upheld a Montana statute that prohibited defendants from introducing evidence of voluntary intoxication to negate the mens rea element of a crime. The Court held that the Due Process Clause does not require states to allow defendants to introduce evidence that negates an element of a crime, as long as the state's rule is not "arbitrary or disproportionate to the purposes it is designed to serve." Id. at 43 (quoting Medina v. California, 505 U.S. 437, 445 (1992)).

Similarly, Arizona's rule limiting the use of expert evidence to the insanity defense is not arbitrary or disproportionate. The state's interest in preventing confusion between the insanity defense and the mens rea element is legitimate, and the rule is designed to serve that interest. See State v. Mott, 931 P.2d 1046, 1051 (Ariz. 1997) ("The insanity defense and the mens rea defense serve different purposes and are based on different theories.").

The Ninth Circuit and other courts have recognized that states have flexibility in this area. For example, in United States v. Cameron, 907 F.2d 1051 (11th Cir. 1990), the court noted that the use of psychiatric evidence to negate specific intent is not constitutionally required. The Arizona Supreme Court's decision affirming Clark's conviction is consistent with these principles, and this Court should uphold it. The judgment of the Arizona Supreme Court should be affirmed.