The reinstatement statute, Section 241(a)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), does not apply to aliens who re-entered the United States before its effective date in 1997. Even if it did, applying it to Fernandez-Vargas would be impermissibly retroactive.

First, the plain language of the statute and congressional intent suggest that it does not apply retroactively to pre-enactment re-entries. The Supreme Court has held that statutes should not be given retroactive effect unless Congress has clearly manifested an intent for them to do so. See Landgraf v. USI Film Products, 511 U.S. 244, 280 (1994). The INA's reinstatement provision lacks clear language indicating retroactive application. In Fernandez-Antonia v. Gonzales, 442 F.3d 1058 (7th Cir. 2006), the Seventh Circuit held that Section 241(a)(5) does not apply to aliens who re-entered before its enactment, reasoning that Congress did not clearly intend retroactive application.

Even if the statute were deemed to apply to pre-enactment re-entries, its application to Fernandez-Vargas would be impermissibly retroactive. The Supreme Court has established a two-step test for determining retroactivity: (1) whether Congress has clearly indicated the statute's temporal reach, and (2) if not, whether applying the statute retroactively would have an impermissible retroactive effect. See Landgraf, 511 U.S. at 280. Applying Section 241(a)(5) to Fernandez-Vargas would attach new legal consequences to his pre-enactment re-entry and his reliance on pre-existing law regarding adjustment of status. As the Ninth Circuit noted in Ibarra-Flores v. Gonzales, 439 F.3d 614 (9th Cir. 2006), applying the reinstatement statute retroactively would impair the alien's rights and increase their liability for past conduct.

The government's argument that Fernandez-Vargas had no "protectable expectation of being able to adjust his status" is unpersuasive. The Court has recognized that an alien's reliance on prior law can be a relevant factor in determining retroactivity. See INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U.S. 289, 323-24 (2001). Fernandez-Vargas re-entered the country and lived here for over 15 years, forming connections and relying on the law as it existed at the time. The reinstatement statute's application to him would upset these settled expectations.

The judgment of the Tenth Circuit should be reversed, as the reinstatement statute does not apply to Fernandez-Vargas or, alternatively, its application to him is impermissibly retroactive.