The District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. Under Rule 23(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, a class action may be maintained only if "the court finds that the questions of law or fact common to class members predominate over any questions affecting only individual members, and that a class action is superior to other available methods for fairly and efficiently adjudicating the controversy." The predominance requirement is not met here because the plaintiffs failed to provide a reliable methodology to measure damages on a class-wide basis.

The Third Circuit has held that a district court must conduct a "rigorous analysis" of the evidence and arguments in making the class certification decision. In re Hydrogen Peroxide Antitrust Litig., 552 F.3d 305, 318 (3d Cir. 2008). This analysis requires "a thorough examination of the factual and legal allegations" and "may include a preliminary inquiry into the merits." Id. at 317 (quoting Newton v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 259 F.3d 154, 166, 168 (3d Cir.2001)). The plaintiffs' damages expert, Dr. James McClave, proposed a methodology to measure damages, but it was flawed because it failed to account for the varying impact of Comcast's alleged anticompetitive conduct on different class members.

The Supreme Court has emphasized that a class cannot be certified without a reliable methodology to measure damages. In Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, the Court held that "a model purporting to serve as evidence of damages in this class action must measure only those damages attributable to [the anticompetitive conduct alleged]." --- U.S. ---, 133 S. Ct. 1426, 1433 (2013). The Court further stated that "a class cannot be certified on the premise that [the defendant] will not be able to keep [damages attributable to the anticompetitive conduct] distinct from [other damages]." Id. at 1434. Here, the plaintiffs' damages model failed to satisfy this requirement, and the District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis.

The Third Circuit's decision affirming the District Court's certification order was incorrect because it failed to properly apply the predominance requirement. The Court of Appeals should have reversed the District Court's decision because it rested on a clearly erroneous finding of fact, namely that the plaintiffs had provided a reliable methodology to measure damages on a class-wide basis. See United States v. U.S. Gypsum Co., 333 U.S. 364, 395 (1948) (holding that a reviewing court can upset a finding of fact if it is "left with the definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been committed").

In conclusion, the District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The Third Circuit's decision affirming the certification order was incorrect, and the class certification should be reversed.