The government bears the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that a defendant was a member of a conspiracy during the relevant statute of limitations period. When a defendant withdraws from a conspiracy prior to the statute of limitations period, the government must show that the defendant was still a member of the conspiracy during the relevant period. See Grunewald v. United States, 353 U.S. 391, 396-97 (1957) (holding that the government must prove that the conspiracy continued into the limitations period).

The D.C. Circuit's decision affirming the petitioners' convictions is consistent with this principle. The court held that the government had met its burden of proving that the conspiracy continued into the valid statute of limitations period. See United States v. Smith, No. 08-3045 (D.C. Cir. 2011). This decision is in line with the Supreme Court's holding in Grunewald, which established that the government must prove the conspiracy's continuation into the limitations period.

The petitioners' argument that the jury did not have sufficient evidence to prove that all defendants were part of a single conspiracy is unpersuasive. The government presented evidence that the conspiracy continued beyond the split between the leaders, Rodney Moore and Kevin Gray. See United States v. Moore, 651 F.3d 30, 63-64 (D.C. Cir. 2011) (holding that a single conspiracy can continue despite changes in leadership or membership).

The burden of persuasion remains with the government to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused was a member of the conspiracy during the relevant period. See In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358, 364 (1970) (holding that the government bears the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt). The government's failure to meet this burden would require reversal of the convictions.

In this case, the government met its burden by presenting sufficient evidence that the conspiracy continued into the limitations period. The D.C. Circuit's decision affirming the petitioners' convictions should be upheld, as it is consistent with the principles established in Grunewald and In re Winship. The petitioners' claim that the government did not meet its burden of proof should be rejected.