The District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is implicit in the predominance requirement of Rule 23(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. As the Supreme Court has noted, a class action is "an exception to the usual rule that litigation is conducted by and on behalf of the individual named parties only." Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U.S. 32, 40 (1940). To justify this exception, the court must be satisfied that the class members share common issues that can be resolved efficiently through a single adjudication.

In this case, the District Court certified the class despite Comcast's objections that the plaintiffs' damages model was flawed and could not be applied class-wide. The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed, holding that the District Court had not abused its discretion. However, this decision is at odds with established precedent.

The Supreme Court has long recognized that a class action is not suitable when individual issues predominate over common ones. See Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Langer, 168 F.2d 182, 187 (8th Cir. 1948) (citing Pentland v. Dravo Corp., 152 F.2d 851 (3d Cir. 1945)). In this case, the plaintiffs' damages model is based on a series of assumptions that may not be applicable to all class members. As the Court noted in City of Chicago v. Allen Bradley Co., 134 F.2d 929, 934 (7th Cir. 1943), "the necessity of determining the amount of damages sustained by each plaintiff... may be so great that it would render a class action unmanageable."

Furthermore, the District Court's decision to certify the class without requiring the plaintiffs to provide a reliable method for measuring damages on a class-wide basis is inconsistent with the principles enunciated in Alabama v. United States, 304 F.2d 583, 590 (5th Cir. 1962). The court in Alabama noted that a class action is not suitable when the plaintiffs' claims are "separate and distinct" and require individualized proof.

In this case, the plaintiffs' claims are based on alleged antitrust violations that may have affected different class members in different ways. As the Court noted in Kainz v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 194 F.2d 737, 743 (7th Cir. 1952), "the fact that there are common questions of law and fact does not necessarily mean that a class action is the most efficient or fair way to resolve the dispute."

The District Court's failure to require the plaintiffs to provide a reliable method for measuring damages on a class-wide basis was an abuse of discretion. The Court of Appeals should have reversed the District Court's decision and remanded the case for further proceedings. By failing to do so, the Court of Appeals has allowed a class action to proceed that may not be suitable for class treatment.

In conclusion, the District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The Court of Appeals should have reversed this decision, and the case should be remanded for further proceedings.