The District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. Under Rule 23(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, a class may be certified only if "the court finds that the questions of law or fact common to class members predominate over any questions affecting only individual members, and that a class action is superior to other available methods for fairly and efficiently adjudicating the controversy." The predominance requirement is not met here because the plaintiffs failed to provide a reliable methodology to measure damages on a class-wide basis.

The Third Circuit has held that a district court must conduct a "rigorous analysis" of the evidence and arguments in making the class certification decision. In re Hydrogen Peroxide Antitrust Litig., 552 F.3d 305, 318 (3d Cir. 2008). This analysis requires "a thorough examination of the factual and legal allegations" and "may include a preliminary inquiry into the merits." Id. at 317 (quoting Newton v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 259 F.3d 154, 166, 168 (3d Cir.2001)). The court must ensure that the plaintiffs have demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that they will be able to prove their claims through common evidence. Id. at 320.

In this case, the District Court certified the class based on the testimony of Dr. James McClave, who proposed a damages model that purported to measure damages on a class-wide basis. However, Dr. McClave's model failed to account for the fact that the plaintiffs' theory of antitrust impact was not supported by the evidence. The model assumed that Comcast's clustering strategy had a uniform impact on all class members, but the evidence showed that the impact varied depending on individual circumstances.

The Third Circuit's decision in In re Hydrogen Peroxide Antitrust Litig. makes clear that a district court must carefully scrutinize the evidence and ensure that the plaintiffs have provided a reliable methodology to measure damages on a class-wide basis. 552 F.3d at 325. The court may not simply accept the plaintiffs' assertions or rely on untested expert testimony. Id. Here, the District Court failed to conduct a sufficiently rigorous analysis of Dr. McClave's model and the evidence supporting it.

The Supreme Court has also emphasized the importance of a rigorous analysis at the class certification stage. In Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, the Court held that a district court must conduct a "rigorous analysis" to ensure that the plaintiffs have met the requirements of Rule 23. -U.S.-, 131 S.Ct. 2541, 2551 (2011). The Court noted that "frequently [the Rule 23] 'rigorous analysis' will entail some overlap with the merits of the plaintiff's underlying claim." Id.

In this case, the District Court's failure to conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and Dr. McClave's model was an abuse of discretion. The court should have required the plaintiffs to provide a more reliable methodology to measure damages on a class-wide basis. By certifying the class without such evidence, the District Court erred.

The judgment of the Third Circuit should be reversed, and the case should be remanded to the District Court with instructions to decertify the class.