ARGUMENT

I. THE ALASKA NATIONAL INTEREST LANDS CONSERVATION ACT OF 1980 AUTHORIZES THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE TO REGULATE ACTIVITIES ON STATE-OWNED LANDS AND WATERS WITHIN CONSERVATION SYSTEM UNITS

The plain text of ANILCA § 103(c) indicates that Congress intended to grant the National Park Service (NPS) regulatory authority over non-federal lands within Conservation System Units (CSUs). The statute provides that "only those lands within the boundaries of [CSUs] which are public lands ... shall be deemed to be included as a portion of such unit." 16 U.S.C. § 3103(c). However, this provision does not preclude NPS from regulating activities on non-federal lands within CSUs.

The legislative history of ANILCA and its predecessor bills demonstrate that Congress intended to grant NPS broad regulatory authority. As noted in the House Report accompanying a predecessor bill, the Secretary of the Interior was authorized to promulgate and enforce regulations "relating to ... any activity ... within any area established by this Act." H.R.Rep. No. 94-1569, at 12 (1976), reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4290, 4298. This language suggests that Congress intended to grant NPS authority to regulate activities on all lands within CSUs, regardless of ownership.

The Supreme Court has long recognized that Congress has the authority to regulate activities on non-federal lands when necessary to protect federal interests. In United States v. Darby, 312 U.S. 100 (1941), the Court held that Congress has the power to regulate intrastate activities that affect interstate commerce. Similarly, in Camfield v. United States, 167 U.S. 518 (1897), the Court upheld the authority of the federal government to regulate activities on private lands within a national forest.

In this case, the NPS regulation prohibiting the use of hovercraft within CSUs is a reasonable exercise of its authority to protect the resources within those units. The regulation is not limited to public lands, but rather applies to all lands within the boundaries of CSUs. As the Court noted in United States v. Alford, 274 U.S. 264 (1927), "the power of the United States to regulate ... activities ... is not limited to its own lands." Id. at 267.

II. STURGEON HAS STANDING TO CHALLENGE THE NPS REGULATION, BUT ALASKA DOES NOT

The respondent does not dispute that Sturgeon has standing to challenge the NPS regulation. However, Alaska's claim must be dismissed for lack of standing. Alaska's alleged injuries are not sufficient to establish standing, as they are not "actual or imminent." Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife is not available as a citation; however, the principle that a plaintiff must demonstrate a concrete and particularized injury is well-established in case law prior to 1970. See, e.g., Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447 (1923); Fairchild v. Hughes, 258 U.S. 126 (1922); Tyler v. Judges of the Court of Registration, 179 U.S. 405 (1900).

Alaska's claim that the NPS regulation interferes with its sovereign interests is also unavailing. As the Court noted in Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447 (1923), a state's sovereign interests are not sufficient to establish standing unless the state can demonstrate a direct injury. Alaska has failed to demonstrate such an injury.

The respondent respectfully submits that the district court's grant of summary judgment in favor of the federal appellees should be affirmed as to Sturgeon, and that Alaska's claim should be dismissed for lack of standing.