The Eleventh Circuit correctly held that a constitutional challenge to a school policy seeking nominal damages is rendered moot when the unconstitutional policy is revised during litigation. The mootness doctrine is rooted in Article III's requirement that federal courts only decide live cases or controversies. Flanigan's Enterprises, Inc. of Georgia v. City of Sandy Springs, 868 F.3d 1248, 1255 (11th Cir. 2017) (en banc). A case becomes moot when the issues presented are no longer "live" or the parties lack a legally cognizable interest in the outcome. Id. (quoting Powell v. McCormack, 395 U.S. 486, 496 (1969)).

Here, the petitioners, Chike Uzuegbunam and Joseph Bradford, challenged Georgia Gwinnett College's (GGC) "Freedom of Expression Policy" and "Student Code of Conduct." While the case was pending, GGC revised its policies to allow students to speak anywhere on campus without a permit, except in limited circumstances, and removed the challenged portion of its "Student Code of Conduct." The district court and the Eleventh Circuit correctly concluded that these changes rendered the petitioners' claims for declaratory and injunctive relief moot.

The petitioners argue that their claim for nominal damages saves their otherwise moot constitutional challenge. However, the Eleventh Circuit has held that a prayer for nominal damages generally will not save an otherwise moot challenge to an allegedly unconstitutional policy or law. Flanigan's, 868 F.3d at 1265-66. The court reasoned that nominal damages are not sufficient to establish a live controversy when the challenged policy is no longer in effect and there is no reasonable expectation that it will be reinstated. Id.

The petitioners attempt to distinguish their case from Flanigan's by arguing that their complaint included a request for compensatory damages. However, the district court and the Eleventh Circuit correctly concluded that the complaint did not allege any actual injury, and the request for "monetary damages" and "damages in an amount to be determined by the evidence and this Court" referred to nominal damages. Slicker v. Jackson, 215 F.3d 1225, 1230 (11th Cir. 2000) (holding that compensatory damages in a § 1983 suit must be based on actual injury).

The petitioners also argue that the district court abused its discretion by denying them leave to amend their complaint. However, the district court correctly noted that the petitioners' request to amend was not properly made, as it was embedded in their response to the motion to dismiss. Cita Tr. Co. AG v. Fifth Third Bank, 879 F.3d 1151, 1157 (11th Cir. 2018). The district court did not prevent the petitioners from seeking leave to amend after its dismissal of the complaint without prejudice.

In conclusion, the Eleventh Circuit correctly applied the mootness doctrine and held that the petitioners' constitutional challenge was rendered moot by GGC's revision of its policies. The court also correctly concluded that the petitioners' claim for nominal damages did not save their otherwise moot challenge, and the district court did not abuse its discretion in handling the petitioners' request to amend. The judgment of the Eleventh Circuit should be affirmed.