**ARGUMENT**

Respondent submits that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not confer upon a defendant a right, separate from his insanity plea, to present expert evidence of his mental state to negate criminal intent. The Arizona trial court’s ruling was consistent with longstanding principles of criminal responsibility and due process.

A defendant’s mental state is relevant to criminal liability only insofar as it bears upon the narrow question of his responsibility for the crime charged. In *Davis v. United States*, 160 U.S. 469, 487 (1895), the Court held that evidence of insanity may be introduced solely to establish the defense of insanity, not to negate other elements of the offense. The Court reasoned that the defendant’s mental condition at the time of the offense is “a fact to be determined by the jury” only when it is “put in issue by the plea of insanity.” *Id.* at 488. This principle was reaffirmed in *United States v. Currens*, 290 F.2d 72 (3d Cir. 1961), where the court held that psychiatric evidence could not be used to negate specific intent unless the defendant had pleaded insanity. The court explained that “the law does not permit the introduction of evidence of insanity for any purpose other than to establish the defense of insanity.” *Id.* at 77.

The Due Process Clause does not compel a different result. In *Palko v. Connecticut*, 302 U.S. 319, 325 (1937), the Court held that due process protects only those rights that are “of the very essence of a scheme of ordered liberty.” The right to introduce psychiatric evidence to negate criminal intent is not such a right. As this Court recognized in *Maxwell v. Dow*, 176 U.S. 581, 594 (1900), the states have broad discretion in defining the elements of crimes and the defenses thereto. The states may confine psychiatric evidence to the insanity defense without violating due process. *See also* *Hawkins v. United States*, 358 U.S. 41, 43 (1958) (holding that the federal insanity defense statute does not violate due process by limiting psychiatric evidence to the insanity issue).

Arizona’s rule is also consistent with the common-law understanding of criminal responsibility. As Blackstone explained, “[t]he law presumes every man to be sane, and to possess a sufficient degree of reason to be responsible for his crimes, until the contrary be proved to [the jury’s] satisfaction.” 4 William Blackstone, *Commentaries on the Laws of England* 20 (1769). The insanity defense is an exception to this presumption, and psychiatric evidence is admissible only to establish that exception. *See also* *Parsons v. State*, 81 Ala. 577, 602 (1886) (holding that evidence of insanity is admissible only to establish the defense of insanity, not to negate other elements of the offense).

Finally, the Arizona rule does not offend due process because it does not prevent the defendant from presenting all relevant evidence. The defendant remains free to introduce any evidence that tends to show he lacked the requisite criminal intent, including lay testimony and circumstantial evidence. The state’s rule merely confines psychiatric expert testimony to the insanity defense, where it belongs. *See* *Davis*, 160 U.S. at 488 (noting that the defendant may introduce other evidence to negate intent, but psychiatric evidence is limited to the insanity defense).

In sum, the Due Process Clause does not require Arizona to permit expert psychiatric evidence to negate criminal intent outside the context of an insanity defense. The trial court’s ruling was consistent with longstanding principles of criminal responsibility and due process.