The Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series on family values and child rearing constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech. 

The Supreme Court has established that the extent of permissible governmental regulation of expressive activity on publicly owned property depends on the character of the public property in question (Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 44 (1983)). The Court has identified three categories of publicly owned property: traditional public forums, designated or limited public forums, and nonpublic forums (Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S. 788, 802 (1985)). 

The Center Moriches School District facilities fall within the category of limited public forums, as they have been opened for use by certain groups or for the discussion of certain subjects (Hazelwood School Dist. v. Kuhlmeier, 484 U.S. 260, 267 (1988)). In a limited public forum, the government's power to regulate expression is limited, and exclusions based on content are subject to strict scrutiny (Perry, 460 U.S. at 46). The District's policy of excluding religious groups from using its facilities constitutes a content-based exclusion, as it discriminates against speech based on its religious content.

The Second Circuit erred in affirming the district court's grant of summary judgment to the School District, as it misapplied the principles governing limited public forums. The court below relied on the fact that the District had not previously allowed religious groups to use its facilities, but this does not justify the exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series. The Supreme Court has held that, in a limited public forum, the government may not exclude speech based on its content unless the exclusion is reasonable and viewpoint-neutral (Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the Univ. of Va., 515 U.S. 819, 829 (1995)).

The District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series is not viewpoint-neutral, as it targets the religious content of the speech. The film series, which discusses family values and child rearing from a Christian perspective, is not inherently incompatible with the purposes of the school facilities. The District's concern about avoiding an Establishment Clause violation is unfounded, as the use of school facilities by Lamb's Chapel would not imply state endorsement of the religious content (Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 271-72 (1981); Board of Educ. of the Westside Community Schs. v. Mergens, 496 U.S. 226, 248-50 (1990)).

In Widmar and Mergens, the Supreme Court held that a public university and a high school, respectively, could not deny access to their facilities to student groups that wished to engage in religious activities. Similarly, in this case, the District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series constitutes a content-based exclusion that violates the First Amendment's freedom of speech.

The judgment of the Second Circuit should be reversed, as the District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series from its facilities is not justified by a compelling state interest and is not narrowly tailored to serve that interest.