The National Labor Relations Board's (NLRB) "good-faith reasonable doubt" standard for polling employees on union support is not rational and consistent with the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). Although the NLRB has primary responsibility for developing and applying national labor policy, NLRB v. Curtin Matheson Scientific, Inc., 494 U.S. 775, 786 (1990), its standard for polling is inconsistent with the NLRA's goal of stable collective-bargaining relationships.

The Fifth, Sixth, and Ninth Circuits have rejected the NLRB's standard, holding that an employer may poll its employees if it has "substantial, objective evidence of a loss of union support," even if that evidence is insufficient to justify withdrawal of recognition. A.W. Thompson, Inc. v. NLRB, 651 F.2d 1141, 1145 (5th Cir. 1981); Mingtree Restaurant, Inc. v. NLRB, 736 F.2d 1295, 1299 (9th Cir. 1984); Thomas Indus., Inc. v. NLRB, 687 F.2d 863, 867 (6th Cir. 1982). This standard is more consistent with the NLRA, as it allows employers to test employee sentiment without committing an unfair labor practice.

The NLRB's factual determination that Allentown Mack Sales, Inc. lacked a good-faith reasonable doubt about the union's majority status is not supported by substantial evidence. The Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) and the NLRB ignored or discounted significant evidence of employee dissatisfaction with the union, including statements from multiple employees. For example, the statements of Mike Ridgick and Dennis Marsh, although made during job interviews, indicate dissatisfaction with the union. The NLRB's precedent holding that such statements are unreliable, Middleboro Fire Apparatus, Inc., 234 N.L.R.B. 888, 894 (1978), is not applicable here, as the employer did not indicate that it would retaliate against employees who supported the union.

Furthermore, the statements of Kermit Bloch and Ron Mohr, although hearsay, provide objective evidence of a loss of union support. The NLRB's refusal to credit these statements is arbitrary and capricious. The employer's poll, conducted with procedural safeguards, demonstrated that a majority of employees did not support the union.

The NLRB's decision is inconsistent with the NLRA and should be reversed. The court should adopt the standard set forth by the Fifth, Sixth, and Ninth Circuits and hold that Allentown Mack Sales, Inc. did not commit an unfair labor practice by polling its employees.