The post-removal-period statute, 8 U.S.C. § 1231(a)(6), does not authorize the Attorney General to detain a removable alien indefinitely beyond the 90-day removal period. As the Supreme Court held in Zadvydas v. Davis, 533 U.S. 678 (2001), interpreting the statute to permit indefinite detention would raise serious constitutional concerns. 533 U.S. at 699. To avoid these concerns, the Court construed the statute to contain an implicit "reasonable time" limitation. Id. 

The Court's holding is grounded in the principle that "indefinite detention" is not authorized by the statute. Id. at 682. The Court reasoned that the statute's "basic purpose" is to "assur[e] the alien's presence at the moment of removal." Id. at 699. Therefore, if removal is not "reasonably foreseeable," continued detention is "unreasonable and no longer authorized by statute." Id. at 700.

The Court established a presumptively reasonable period of detention of six months, after which the burden shifts to the government to provide evidence sufficient to rebut the alien's showing that there is no significant likelihood of removal in the reasonably foreseeable future. Id. at 701. As the period of post-removal confinement grows, what counts as the "reasonably foreseeable future" conversely shrinks. Id.

In this case, Zadvydas has been in INS custody for more than three years beyond the expiration of the removal period. The district court found that he "will never be deported because there is no place to send him." Zadvydas v. Caplinger, 986 F. Supp. 1011, 1027 (E.D. La. 1997). Under the Supreme Court's holding in Zadvydas, this finding necessarily implies that removal is not reasonably foreseeable. Therefore, continued detention is no longer authorized by the statute.

The government's efforts to effectuate Zadvydas' removal do not justify indefinite detention. The Supreme Court rejected the Fifth Circuit's standard, which permitted detention as long as "good faith efforts to effectuate ... deportation continue" and the alien failed to show that deportation would be "impossible." Zadvydas, 533 U.S. at 702 (quoting Zadvydas v. Underdown, 185 F.3d 279, 297 (5th Cir. 1999)). Instead, the Court held that the habeas court must consider whether detention exceeds a period reasonably necessary to secure removal. Id. at 699-700.

In conclusion, the post-removal-period statute does not authorize the Attorney General to detain a removable alien indefinitely beyond the 90-day removal period. The Supreme Court's holding in Zadvydas establishes that the statute contains an implicit "reasonable time" limitation, and that continued detention is only authorized if removal is reasonably foreseeable. Since Zadvydas' removal is not reasonably foreseeable, his continued detention is not authorized by the statute.