ARGUMENT

The Third Circuit erred in affirming Anthony Elonis' conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 875(c) because the trial court's jury instruction on "true threats" did not require the government to prove Elonis' subjective intent to threaten. The First Amendment requires that a "true threat" conviction be based on a defendant's subjective intent to threaten, as held by the Supreme Court in Virginia v. Black, 538 U.S. 343 (2003).

In Virginia v. Black, the Court considered the constitutionality of a Virginia statute that banned cross burning with the intent to intimidate. The Court held that the First Amendment permits states to ban "true threats," but that a statute that criminalizes cross burning must include a requirement that the defendant have the intent to intimidate. Id. at 359-60. The Court explained that "‘[t]rue threats’ encompass those statements where the speaker means to communicate a serious expression of an intention to commit an act of unlawful violence to a particular individual or group of individuals." Id. at 359. This language indicates that a "true threat" requires a subjective intent to threaten.

The Third Circuit's decision in United States v. Kosma, 951 F.2d 549 (3d Cir. 1991), which held that a "true threat" is determined by an objective standard, is no longer good law in light of Virginia v. Black. The Third Circuit's holding that Virginia v. Black did not overrule Kosma is incorrect because the Supreme Court's decision in Black clearly established that a "true threat" requires a subjective intent to threaten.

The trial court's jury instruction, which defined a "true threat" as a statement made in a context or under circumstances that would cause a reasonable person to foresee that the statement would be interpreted as a threat, was erroneous. This instruction did not require the jury to find that Elonis subjectively intended to threaten, and therefore did not comply with the First Amendment's requirements.

Requiring a subjective intent to threaten is essential to protect speech that is merely hyperbolic or joking. Without this requirement, individuals may be convicted for speech that is not intended to be threatening, but is merely misunderstood by others. As the Supreme Court noted in Watts v. United States, 394 U.S. 705 (1969), "a statute such as this one, which makes criminal a form of pure speech, must be interpreted with the commands of the First Amendment clearly in mind." Id. at 707.

The government must prove that Elonis subjectively intended to threaten in order to convict him under 18 U.S.C. § 875(c). The trial court's jury instruction was erroneous, and Elonis' conviction should be reversed.