I. The Federal Circuit Erred in Affirming the District Court's Damages Award Based on Samsung's Entire Profits from its Smartphones

The Federal Circuit's decision to affirm the district court's damages award based on Samsung's entire profits from its smartphones contravenes the plain language of 35 U.S.C. § 289. The statute provides that a design patent infringer is liable for "the total profit, but not less than $250, recovered by the defendant from the sale of the article in the case of an infringement of a patent for a design." 35 U.S.C. § 289. However, when the infringing design is only a component of a larger product, the statute requires that damages be limited to the profit attributable to the infringing component.

The Supreme Court has long recognized that the purpose of § 289 is to provide compensation for the infringement, not to punish the infringer. See Dobson v. Dornan, 118 U.S. 10, 16-17 (1886) (explaining that the "total profit" provision is intended to provide "just compensation" for the infringement). In Nike, Inc. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 138 F.3d 1437 (Fed. Cir. 1998), the Federal Circuit itself acknowledged that § 289 requires an apportionment of profits when the infringing design is only a component of a larger product. Id. at 1443.

In this case, the district court erred in allowing the jury to award damages based on Samsung's entire profits from its smartphones, rather than limiting damages to the profit attributable to the infringing design elements. The Federal Circuit's affirmance of this decision is inconsistent with the statutory language and relevant case law. As the dissenting judges below noted, the majority's decision "raises big questions about how aspects of the damages doctrine ought to operate." Samsung Elecs. Co. v. Apple Inc., 837 F.3d 1227, 1229 (Fed. Cir. 2016) (Prost, C.J., dissenting).

II. The Federal Circuit Should Have Limited Damages to the Portion of Samsung's Profits Attributable to the Infringing Design Elements

When a design patent covers only a component of a product, damages should be limited to the profit attributable to that component. This principle is supported by the Supreme Court's decision in Dobson v. Dornan, which held that the "total profit" provision is intended to provide "just compensation" for the infringement. 118 U.S. at 16-17. In the context of a component, "just compensation" requires an apportionment of profits.

The Federal Circuit's failure to apply this principle in this case resulted in an excessive damages award that is not supported by the statute or relevant case law. As the Court has recognized, "the patent statute provides a remedy for the infringement of a design patent that is distinct from the remedy for the infringement of a utility patent." Samsung Elecs. Co. v. Apple Inc., 137 S. Ct. 429, 431 (2016) (per curiam). In this case, the Federal Circuit should have applied the principles of § 289 to limit damages to the profit attributable to the infringing design elements.

By affirming the district court's damages award, the Federal Circuit has effectively allowed Apple to recover damages that are not attributable to the infringing design elements. This outcome is inconsistent with the statutory language and relevant case law, and undermines the principles of "just compensation" that underlie the patent statute. This Court should reverse the Federal Circuit's decision and remand for a recalculation of damages that is limited to the profit attributable to the infringing design elements.