The Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series on family values for family values and child rearing violated the First Amendment's freedom of speech. The District's facilities are a limited public forum, and the exclusion of religious speech is not viewpoint-neutral.

The Supreme Court has established that the extent of permissible governmental regulation of expressive activity on publicly owned property depends on the character of the public property in question (Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 44 (1983)). A limited public forum is a place that has been "purposefully opened for use by the public for expressive activity" but is not a traditional public forum (Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S. 788, 802 (1985)). The regulation of expression in a limited public forum must be viewpoint-neutral (Perry, 460 U.S. at 46).

The District's facilities are a limited public forum because they have been opened for use by certain groups, such as the Center Moriches Free Public Library and the Southern Harmonizers (Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School Dist., 770 F.Supp. 91, 98 (E.D.N.Y.1991)). However, the District has excluded Lamb's Chapel from using the facilities for a religious-oriented film series, citing Local Rule No. 7, which prohibits the use of school premises for religious purposes.

The exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's speech is not viewpoint-neutral because it is based on the religious content of the speech. The film series, "Turn Your Heart Toward Home," is a family-oriented presentation that discusses family values and child rearing from a Christian perspective. The District has allowed other groups to use the facilities for presentations on similar topics, such as the lecture series, "Psychology and The Unknown," sponsored by the Center Moriches Free Public Library. The District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request is therefore a content-based exclusion that is not justified by a compelling state interest (Perry, 460 U.S. at 45).

The Supreme Court has held that a state university's denial of access to university facilities to a student religious group was unconstitutional because it created a forum generally open for use by student groups (Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 273 (1981)). Similarly, in Board of Education of the Westside Community Schools v. Mergens, the Court held that a high school's denial of a request to form a Christian club was a denial of equal access under the Equal Access Act (496 U.S. 226, 247 (1990)).

The District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's speech is not justified by a concern for avoiding an Establishment Clause violation. The Supreme Court has held that the Establishment Clause is not violated when a public school allows a religious group to use its facilities after hours, as long as the use is not during school hours and does not involve school sponsorship or endorsement (Widmar, 454 U.S. at 271-72).

In conclusion, the District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series violated the First Amendment's freedom of speech. The District's facilities are a limited public forum, and the exclusion of religious speech is not viewpoint-neutral. The Court should reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and hold that the District's actions were unconstitutional.