The Double Jeopardy Clause does not preclude retrial on a prior conviction allegation in noncapital sentencing proceedings. The Clause protects a defendant from being subjected to multiple prosecutions for the same offense, but it has never been applied to sentencing determinations in noncapital cases.

In Bullington v. Missouri, 451 U.S. 430 (1981), the Supreme Court held that the Double Jeopardy Clause applies to capital sentencing proceedings because they share many of the "hallmarks of the trial on guilt or innocence." However, the Court has never extended this holding to noncapital sentencing proceedings. In fact, the Court has suggested that Bullington may not apply to noncapital cases. See Caspari v. Bohlen, 510 U.S. 383, 392 (1994) (noting that "both Bullington and Rumsey were capital cases, and our reasoning in those cases was based largely on the unique circumstances of a capital sentencing proceeding").

Moreover, noncapital sentencing proceedings lack the characteristics that make capital sentencing proceedings similar to trials on guilt or innocence. Unlike capital sentencing proceedings, noncapital sentencing proceedings do not require proof beyond a reasonable doubt, and the prosecution is not required to prove aggravating circumstances. See Lockhart v. Nelson, 488 U.S. 33 (1988) (distinguishing between the guilt phase and the sentencing phase).

The California Legislature has elected to provide a trial-like proceeding for prior conviction allegations under Penal Code section 1025. However, many of the procedural protections that apply in these trials rest on statutory, not federal constitutional, grounds. See People v. Vera, 15 Cal.4th 269, 274, 277 (1997) (holding that a state that provides a trial of sentencing allegations need not provide a jury trial). The fact that California has chosen to provide certain procedural protections in noncapital sentencing proceedings does not mean that the Double Jeopardy Clause applies.

Furthermore, the Supreme Court has consistently held that sentencing determinations are not subject to the same level of procedural protection as trials on guilt or innocence. See Williams v. New York, 337 U.S. 241 (1949) (holding that a sentencing judge may consider information obtained outside the courtroom); United States v. Watts, 519 U.S. 148 (1997) (reaffirming Williams). The Court has also held that a sentencing proceeding in a noncapital case does not have the qualities of constitutional finality that attend an acquittal. See Pennsylvania v. Goldhammer, 474 U.S. 28 (1985) (per curiam).

In conclusion, the Double Jeopardy Clause does not preclude retrial on a prior conviction allegation in noncapital sentencing proceedings. The Supreme Court's holding in Bullington is limited to capital cases, and noncapital sentencing proceedings lack the characteristics that make capital sentencing proceedings similar to trials on guilt or innocence. Therefore, the judgment of the California Supreme Court should be affirmed.