The exclusion of the Good News Club from meeting after hours at Milford Central School did not violate the Club's First Amendment free speech rights. Even if a violation occurred, it was justified by Milford's concern that permitting the Club's activities would violate the Establishment Clause.

The First Amendment's Free Speech Clause prohibits the government from discriminating against speech based on its viewpoint. Rosenberger v. Rector & Visitors of University of Virginia, 515 U.S. 819, 828-29 (1995). However, the government may restrict speech in a limited public forum to the extent that the restriction is reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum and is viewpoint neutral. Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School District, 508 U.S. 384, 392-93 (1993).

The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit correctly held that Milford's community use policy created a limited public forum. The policy allowed district residents to use school facilities for "social, civic and recreational meetings and entertainment events and other uses pertaining to the welfare of the community." However, the policy expressly prohibited use for "religious purposes." The Good News Club's proposed use, which included singing songs, hearing Bible lessons, memorizing scripture, and praying, was deemed by Milford to be the equivalent of religious worship, and thus excluded from the limited public forum.

The Club's activities were not merely a discussion of morals and character from a religious perspective, but rather were "quintessentially religious" in nature. The Club's meetings involved prayer, Bible lessons, and invitations to accept Jesus Christ as a personal savior. These activities went beyond the bounds of "pure 'moral and character development'" and were properly excluded from the limited public forum.

The Supreme Court has recognized that the government may exclude religious speech from a limited public forum if the exclusion is viewpoint neutral. In Lamb's Chapel, the Court held that a school district's denial of access to its facilities for a religious film series was viewpoint neutral because the district had not opened its facilities to similar religious activities. 508 U.S. at 394-95. Similarly, in this case, Milford's exclusion of the Good News Club was viewpoint neutral because the Club's activities were not merely a discussion of morals and character from a religious perspective, but rather were a form of religious worship.

Furthermore, permitting the Good News Club to use school facilities would have raised Establishment Clause concerns. The Establishment Clause prohibits the government from endorsing or promoting religion. Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. 306, 314 (1952). Allowing a religious organization to use school facilities for religious activities could be perceived as government endorsement of religion. Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 271-75 (1981). Milford's concern about violating the Establishment Clause justified its exclusion of the Good News Club from its facilities.

In conclusion, Milford Central School did not violate the Good News Club's First Amendment free speech rights by excluding it from meeting after hours at the school. The exclusion was viewpoint neutral and justified by Milford's concern about violating the Establishment Clause. The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit should be affirmed.