The execution of mentally retarded persons is not categorically prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. The Eighth Amendment's prohibition on "cruel and unusual punishments" requires that punishments be evaluated in light of "evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society." As this Court has held, the Eighth Amendment's protections are not static, but rather evolve over time to reflect changing societal values (Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86, 101 (1958)).

In Penry v. Lynaugh, this Court considered the constitutionality of executing mentally retarded individuals and held that it was not categorically prohibited by the Eighth Amendment (492 U.S. 302, 329-30 (1989)). Although the Court acknowledged that mentally retarded individuals may have diminished culpability due to their condition, it ultimately concluded that the Eighth Amendment did not prohibit their execution (id. at 340).

Since Penry, there have been developments in the national consensus on this issue. While some states have enacted legislation prohibiting the execution of mentally retarded individuals, others have not. The fact that some states have taken steps to prohibit the execution of mentally retarded individuals does not necessarily establish a national consensus against the practice (see McCleskey v. Kemp, 481 U.S. 279, 300 (1987)).

Furthermore, the Virginia Supreme Court's decision in this case is consistent with this Court's precedent. In affirming Atkins' death sentence, the Virginia Supreme Court relied on Penry v. Lynaugh, which held that the execution of mentally retarded individuals was not categorically prohibited by the Eighth Amendment.

Atkins' claim that his execution would be cruel and unusual punishment is not supported by a clear national consensus against the execution of mentally retarded individuals. In the absence of such a consensus, this Court should not impose its own judgment on the matter, but rather defer to the considered judgments of the state legislatures and courts (see Stanford v. Kentucky, 492 U.S. 361, 373 (1989)).

Therefore, the judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court should be affirmed, as Atkins' execution is not prohibited by the Eighth Amendment.