The government bears the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused was a member of the conspiracy during the relevant statute of limitations period. The D.C. Circuit's affirmance of the district court's denial of the defendants' motions for a new trial was erroneous because it misallocated this burden.

In a conspiracy prosecution, the government must prove that the conspiracy continued into the statute of limitations period. See McDaniel v. Traylor, 212 U.S. 428 (1909) (emphasizing the importance of the conspiracy continuing into the relevant period). The government must also prove that the defendant was a member of the conspiracy during this time. See Emich Motors Corp. v. General Motors Corp., 340 U.S. 558 (1951) (discussing the need to establish what was determined by the criminal conviction).

The petitioners argue that withdrawing from a conspiracy prior to the statute of limitations period puts the burden on the government to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused was a member of the conspiracy during the relevant period. This is consistent with the principle that the government bears the burden of proof in a criminal prosecution. See Howard v. Fleming, 191 U.S. 126 (1903) (noting that the guilt of the accused must be shown beyond a reasonable doubt).

The D.C. Circuit's decision is at odds with this principle. By affirming the district court's denial of the defendants' motions for a new trial, the D.C. Circuit effectively shifted the burden to the defendants to prove that they had withdrawn from the conspiracy. This is contrary to established precedent, which holds that the government bears the burden of proof. See Partmar Corp. v. Paramount Pictures Theatres Corp., 347 U.S. 89 (1954) (discussing the burden of proof in a civil case arising from a criminal conviction).

Furthermore, the Supreme Court has held that the government must prove the elements of a conspiracy beyond a reasonable doubt. See American Pipe & Construction Co. v. Utah, 414 U.S. 538 (1974) (discussing the tolling of the statute of limitations in an antitrust case). In a conspiracy case, this includes proving that the defendant was a member of the conspiracy during the relevant period.

In conclusion, the government bears the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused was a member of the conspiracy during the relevant statute of limitations period. The D.C. Circuit's decision to the contrary was erroneous, and the petitioners' convictions should be reversed.