The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA) does not prohibit the National Park Service (NPS) from exercising regulatory control over state, Native, corporate, and private Alaska land physically located within the boundaries of the National Park System. Section 103(c) of ANILCA provides that "only those public lands within the boundaries of any conservation system unit which are public lands... shall be deemed to be included as a portion of such unit." 16 U.S.C. § 3103(c). The plain text of the statute indicates that NPS regulations apply to all lands within conservation system units (CSUs), regardless of ownership.

The Supreme Court has long recognized the authority of the federal government to regulate activities on non-federal lands within national parks. In Collins v. Yosemite Park & Curry Co., 304 U.S. 518 (1938), the Court held that the federal government retained jurisdiction over privately owned lands within Yosemite National Park. Similarly, in Curtin v. Benson, 222 U.S. 78 (1911), the Court upheld the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to regulate the use of privately owned lands within Yosemite National Park.

The Court has also recognized the federal government's authority to regulate activities on navigable waters within national parks. In United States v. Pacific & Arctic Railway & Navigation Co., 228 U.S. 87 (1913), the Court held that the federal government had jurisdiction over transportation routes within Alaska, including those that traversed foreign territory. Furthermore, in Hynes, Regional Director, Fish & Wildlife Service v. Grimes Packing Co., 337 U.S. 86 (1949), the Court upheld the authority of the Secretary of Commerce to regulate fishing in Alaska's waters.

The State of Alaska's argument that NPS regulations do not apply to state-owned lands and waters within CSUs is unpersuasive. The Court has previously rejected similar arguments in cases such as Organized Village of Kake v. Egan, 369 U.S. 60 (1962), and Metlakatla Indian Community, Annette Islands Reserve v. Egan, 369 U.S. 45 (1962), where it held that the federal government's authority to regulate Indian affairs and fisheries in Alaska was not limited by state jurisdiction.

In Territory of Alaska v. Troy, 258 U.S. 101 (1922), the Court established that Congress has plenary authority over Alaska, and that statehood did not limit this authority. Similarly, in Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U.S. 504 (1896), the Court held that the federal government's authority to regulate Indian affairs was not limited by state jurisdiction.

Furthermore, in Colorado v. Toll, 268 U.S. 228 (1925), the Court upheld the authority of the National Parks Service to regulate activities within national parks, including those on privately owned lands. The Court also recognized the federal government's authority to regulate activities on navigable waters in Interstate Commerce Commission v. United States Ex Rel. Humboldt Steamship Co., 224 U.S. 474 (1912).

In light of these precedents, it is clear that ANILCA § 103(c) does not prohibit NPS from exercising regulatory control over state, Native, corporate, and private Alaska land physically located within the boundaries of the National Park System. The district court's grant of summary judgment in favor of the federal appellees should be affirmed as to Sturgeon.