**ARGUMENT**

The Sixth Circuit erred in dismissing Harold Wasek’s claim of hostile work environment harassment under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1), and Michigan’s Elliot-Larsen Civil Rights Act (“EL-CRA”), MCL 37.2101 et seq., on the ground that Wasek failed to demonstrate that the harassment was based on his gender. The record establishes that Wasek was subjected to a severe and pervasive pattern of sexually charged conduct—including unwelcome touching, lewd comments, and retaliatory acts—by his coworker Paul Ottobre, and that his employer, Arrow Energy Services, Inc., failed to take prompt and effective remedial action. This conduct, viewed in context, created a work environment so objectively offensive that a reasonable person in Wasek’s position would find it hostile and abusive. The fact that Wasek’s gender was not the *sole* or *explicit* motive for the harassment does not bar recovery under Title VII or EL-CRA, which protect employees from harassment based on sex, regardless of whether the harasser’s intent was to target the employee’s gender per se.

Title VII prohibits “discrimination because of sex,” and the Supreme Court has made clear that this includes harassment that is “so severe or pervasive as to create a hostile or abusive work environment.” Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57, 67 (1986). The Court has further held that “a work environment may be ‘hostile’ or ‘abusive’ even where there is no tangible employment action,” and that “the conduct must be both objectively and subjectively offensive.” Harris v. Forklift Systems, Inc., 510 U.S. 17, 21 (1993). The inquiry is not whether the harasser intended to discriminate on the basis of sex, but whether the conduct “unreasonably interferes with an individual’s work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.” Id. at 21–22.

Here, the record reflects a pattern of conduct that was both objectively severe and subjectively offensive. Ottobre repeatedly touched Wasek in a sexual manner—grabbing his buttocks, poking him with a hammer handle and a sucker rod—while making sexually explicit comments such as “you’ve got a pretty mouth,” “boy you have pretty lips,” and “you know you like it sweetheart.” These remarks were not isolated or innocuous; they were repeated, targeted, and designed to humiliate. The conduct was not merely “off-color” or “boisterous,” but explicitly sexual in nature and directed at Wasek’s person. See Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc., 523 U.S. 75, 81 (1998) (holding that same-sex harassment may constitute sex discrimination under Title VII when the conduct is “sufficiently severe or pervasive to create an objectively hostile or abusive work environment”).

Moreover, the employer’s response was not only inadequate but affirmatively hostile. When Wasek reported the harassment to his rig boss, Pat Tripp, Tripp laughed, discouraged Wasek from “making waves,” and threatened to retaliate by placing him on a “starvation schedule.” Tripp’s conduct—observing the harassment and failing to intervene—constitutes a failure to act, which, under Title VII, can amount to employer liability when the employer has actual or constructive knowledge of the harassment and fails to take prompt and effective remedial action. See Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, 524 U.S. 775, 788 (1998); Burlington Indus., Inc. v. Ellerth, 524 U.S. 742, 765 (1998). The employer’s failure to act is not excused by the fact that the harassment was not explicitly gender-based. The Supreme Court has made clear that “the focus is not on the harasser’s intent, but on the effect of the conduct.” Oncale, 523 U.S. at 81.

When Wasek escalated his complaint to Dick Smillie and Bill Strong, the response was not remedial but dismissive and even encouraging of violence. Smillie told Wasek, “Why don’t you just kick [Ottobre’s] ass?” and Strong advised Wasek to “duke it out” to “get it out of [their] systems.” These responses were not merely indifferent—they were affirmatively hostile and indicative of a company culture that condoned or even encouraged retaliation against employees who complained. Such conduct by supervisors undermines the employer’s duty to maintain a safe workplace and constitutes a failure to take reasonable steps to prevent harassment. See Faragher, 524 U.S. at 788–89.

The Sixth Circuit’s conclusion that Wasek could not maintain a claim because he could not prove the harassment was “because of his gender” misapprehends the law. Title VII does not require proof that the harasser’s motive was to discriminate on the basis of sex. Rather, it prohibits conduct that is “because of sex,” which includes harassment that is “sexually charged” and “based on sex,” even if the harasser’s intent was not to target the employee’s gender. See Oncale, 523 U.S. at 81. The Supreme Court has recognized that “the same conduct may be motivated by animus toward the victim’s sex even if the harasser is not himself motivated by sexual desire.” Id. at 81 n.3. Here, the conduct was not merely “boorish” or “unprofessional”—it was sexually explicit, targeted, and repeated. The fact that Ottobre may have been bisexual does not negate the fact that the harassment was based on Wasek’s sex. See id. at 81 (“[T]he fact that the harasser is homosexual does not necessarily mean that the harassment is not because of sex.”).

The Sixth Circuit’s decision effectively immunizes employers from liability when harassment is sexually charged but not explicitly gender-based, a result that contradicts Supreme Court precedent and undermines the purpose of Title VII. The law does not require employees to prove the harasser’s motive was to discriminate on the basis of sex; it requires only that the conduct be “because of sex.” See 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1). The record here satisfies that standard.

For these reasons, the