The Center Moriches Union Free School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use school facilities for a religious-oriented film series on family values and child rearing constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech in a limited public forum, violating the First Amendment's freedom of speech. 

The Supreme Court has established that the extent of permissible governmental regulation of expressive activity on publicly owned property depends on the character of the public property in question (Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 44 (1983)). The Court has identified three categories of publicly owned property: traditional public forums, designated or limited public forums, and nonpublic forums (Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S. 788, 802 (1985)). 

The Center Moriches School District facilities are a limited public forum, as they have been opened for use by certain groups for expressive activity. In a limited public forum, the government may not exclude speech based on its content unless the exclusion is reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum and viewpoint-neutral (Perry, 460 U.S. at 46). The School District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series, which is a form of expression, is content-based because it is based on the religious content of the speech.

The Second Circuit erred in affirming the district court's grant of summary judgment to the School District. The court below relied on the fact that the School District had not opened its facilities to religious groups by policy or practice. However, the Supreme Court has held that once a limited public forum is created, the government may not exclude speech based on its content unless the exclusion is reasonable and viewpoint-neutral (Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 267 (1981); Board of Educ. of the Westside Community Schs. v. Mergens, 496 U.S. 226, 247 (1990)). 

The School District's denial of Lamb's Chapel's request to use the facilities for a religious-oriented film series is not viewpoint-neutral. The District allowed other groups to use the facilities for similar purposes, such as the Southern Harmonizers' musical performance and Jerry Huck's lecture series on parapsychology. Although these events were not explicitly religious, they touched on themes related to the film series Lamb's Chapel sought to show. By allowing these events while denying Lamb's Chapel's request, the School District engaged in viewpoint discrimination.

Furthermore, the Establishment Clause does not justify the School District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series. In fact, excluding religious speech from a limited public forum may itself raise Establishment Clause concerns by suggesting hostility to religion (Mergens, 496 U.S. at 248). The School District's actions, therefore, not only violate the Free Speech Clause but may also be seen as inconsistent with the Establishment Clause.

The judgment of the Second Circuit should be reversed, as the School District's exclusion of Lamb's Chapel's film series from the limited public forum of its facilities constitutes a content-based exclusion of speech that is not viewpoint-neutral.