The Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause does not guarantee a defendant the right to present expert evidence about his mental state to negate the prosecution's evidence of criminal intent, separate from an insanity defense. As the Supreme Court has held, states have considerable leeway in defining the "rules of relevance" for their criminal trials, and Arizona's rule limiting the use of expert evidence to insanity claims is a permissible exercise of that leeway (Fisher v. United States, 328 U.S. 463, 476 (1946)).

Arizona's insanity defense places the burden on the defendant to prove insanity by clear and convincing evidence (Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 13-502). The state's law also provides that "[e]vidence that a defendant is not responsible for his conduct by reason of insanity ... is not admissible on the issue of whether the defendant did or did not commit the acts charged" (Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 13-502(B)). This rule is consistent with the long-standing principle that states may regulate the admissibility of evidence in their courts (Montana v. Egelhoff, 518 U.S. 37, 42 (1996)).

The Supreme Court has recognized that the Constitution does not require states to adopt a particular insanity defense or to allow defendants to present particular types of evidence (Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S. 197, 211 (1977)). In Patterson, the Court upheld a New York law that placed the burden on the defendant to prove extreme emotional disturbance, which would reduce a homicide charge from murder to manslaughter. The Court held that the law did not violate due process because it did not "shift[] to the defendant the burden of disproving any element of the crime charged" (id. at 215).

Similarly, Arizona's law does not relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove every element of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. The prosecution must still prove that Clark formed the necessary criminal intent, and Clark was free to present lay testimony and other evidence to negate intent (see Clark v. Arizona, 548 U.S. 735, 766 (2006) (noting that Clark presented "considerable lay testimony" about his mental state)). The limitation on expert evidence does not "offend some principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental" (Patterson, 432 U.S. at 201-02).

In this case, Clark was not denied the opportunity to present a defense; he was simply limited in the type of evidence he could use to negate intent. The Constitution does not require that a defendant be allowed to present expert evidence on an element of the crime when that evidence is also relevant to an affirmative defense (see Fisher, 328 U.S. at 476). Therefore, Arizona's rule limiting the use of expert evidence to insanity claims does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause.

The judgment of the Arizona Court of Appeals should be affirmed.