The reinstatement statute, Section 241(a)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), does not apply to aliens who re-entered the United States before its effective date. Even if it did, its application to Fernandez-Vargas would be impermissibly retroactive.

First, the statute's language and legislative history do not clearly indicate that it applies retroactively to pre-enactment re-entries. In United States v. St. Louis, S.F. & T.R. Co., 270 U.S. 1 (1926), the Court held that a statute should not be given retroactive effect unless Congress has made its intention clear. Here, Congress did not explicitly state that the reinstatement statute applies to pre-enactment re-entries. See also United States v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 276 U.S. 160 (1928) (holding that a statute will not be construed to have retroactive effect unless the language requires it).

Furthermore, applying the reinstatement statute to Fernandez-Vargas would have an impermissibly retroactive effect. In Davis v. Commissioner, 69 F.2d 444 (7th Cir. 1934), the court held that a statute cannot be applied retroactively if it would impair rights a party possessed when they acted. Fernandez-Vargas re-entered the United States in 1982 and lived here until 2001, when he married a U.S. citizen and applied to adjust his status. At the time of his re-entry, the law allowed him to apply for adjustment of status. Applying the reinstatement statute to him now would deny him the relief he was eligible for at the time of his re-entry. See also Lynch v. United States, 292 U.S. 571 (1934) (holding that a statute that alters the substantive rights of a party cannot be applied retroactively).

Additionally, the principle of statutory construction that statutes should not be given retroactive effect unless clearly intended by Congress is supported by case law. In Hassett v. Welch, 303 U.S. 303 (1938), the Court held that a statute will not be given retroactive effect unless the language is so clear that it will admit of no other construction. The Court has also held that a statute that is ambiguous or unclear should not be given retroactive effect. See also McFeely v. Commissioner, 296 U.S. 102 (1935).

The government's argument that Fernandez-Vargas had no "protectable expectation of being able to adjust his status" is unpersuasive. In Greene v. United States, 376 U.S. 149 (1964), the Court held that a party's rights are determined by the law in effect at the time of their actions. At the time Fernandez-Vargas re-entered and began living in the United States, he had a legitimate expectation of being able to adjust his status under the law then in effect.

Moreover, the Court has long recognized that retroactive application of a statute can be unfair and unjust. In United States v. Schooner Peggy, 5 U.S. 103 (1801), the Court held that a statute should not be given retroactive effect if it would be unjust or unfair to do so. Applying the reinstatement statute to Fernandez-Vargas would be unfair, as it would deny him the relief he was eligible for at the time of his re-entry.

The Court has also considered the impact of retroactive application on the parties involved. In SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U.S. 194 (1947), the Court held that an agency's decision should not be given retroactive effect if it would be unfair or unjust to do so. Similarly, applying the reinstatement statute to Fernandez-Vargas would be unfair, as it would deny him the opportunity to adjust his status.

Finally, the principle that statutes should be construed to avoid unfair or unjust results is well-established. In Sorrells v. United States, 287 U.S. 435 (1932), the Court held that a statute should be construed in a way that avoids unfair or unjust results. Applying the reinstatement statute to Fernandez-Vargas would be unfair and unjust, as it would deny him the relief he was eligible for at the time of his re-entry.

For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Tenth Circuit should be reversed.