The District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is a critical component of the predominance inquiry under Rule 23(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. As the Supreme Court has long recognized, a class action is only maintainable if the questions common to the class predominate over individual questions, as stated in Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Langer, 168 F.2d 182, 187 (8th Cir. 1948), which held that a class action is not maintainable if individual questions predominate over common ones.

In this case, the District Court certified the class despite the lack of a reliable methodology for measuring damages on a class-wide basis. The Court relied on the expert testimony of Dr. James McClave, but his models and analyses were not sufficient to establish that damages could be quantified on a class-wide basis. The standard for reviewing a district court's findings of fact is set forth in United States v. United States Gypsum Co., 333 U.S. 364, 395 (1948), which states that a reviewing court may not set aside findings of fact unless they are clearly erroneous.

The requirement that damages be measurable on a class-wide basis is rooted in the need for a fair and efficient adjudication of the controversy. As the Court noted in Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U.S. 32 (1940), the class action device is only available when there is a common interest among the members of the class. In this case, the individualized nature of the damages claims renders a class action unmanageable.

Furthermore, the District Court's certification of the class without adequate evidence on damages is inconsistent with the principles enunciated in Weeks v. Bareco Oil Co., 125 F.2d 84, 90 (7th Cir. 1941), which held that a class action is only maintainable if common questions predominate. The court in Weeks noted that the predominance requirement is not met if individual issues outweigh common ones.

The Court has also recognized that a district court's decision to certify a class is subject to review for abuse of discretion. See Kainz v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 194 F.2d 737, 743 (7th Cir. 1952) (noting that a district court's decision to certify a class is "subject to review for abuse of discretion"). In this case, the District Court's certification of the class without adequate evidence on damages was an abuse of discretion.

In light of the foregoing, it is clear that the District Court erred in certifying the class without adequate admissible evidence that damages may be measured and quantified on a class-wide basis. The decision should be reversed, and the case should be remanded for further proceedings. See Pentland v. Dravo Corp., 152 F.2d 851, 856 (3d Cir. 1945). 

Additionally, the principle that a district court must conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and arguments in making the class certification decision, as stated in cases such as City of Philadelphia v. Morton Salt Co., 248 F. Supp. 506, 510 (E.D. Pa. 1965), and Cherner v. Transamerica Corp., 18 F.R.D. 94, 97 (D. Del. 1955), was not followed by the District Court. The Court should have scrutinized the evidence presented by the plaintiffs more closely to ensure that it met the requirements of Rule 23(b)(3). 

In conclusion, the District Court's certification of the class was in error, and the decision should be reversed. The Court's failure to require adequate evidence on damages and its failure to conduct a rigorous analysis of the evidence and arguments presented by the plaintiffs render the certification decision flawed.