ARGUMENT

The district court erred in directing the jury to disregard evidence of subsequent remedial measures that had been properly admitted for impeachment. Federal Rule of Evidence 407 states that evidence of subsequent measures “is not admissible to prove negligence, culpable conduct, a defect in a product, a defect in the product’s design, or a need for a warning or instruction,” yet “may be admissible” when offered “for another purpose, such as impeachment.” Fed. R. Evid. 407.

This Court has held that Rule 407 does not bar evidence offered to rebut a defendant’s suggestion that its product remained unchanged and safe. See, e.g., Hall v. American Steamship Co., 688 F.2d 1062, 1066-67 (5th Cir. 1982) (evidence admissible to impeach testimony implying no remedial action taken). Other circuits likewise recognize the impeachment exception when a party “opens the door.” See, e.g., Werner v. Upjohn Co., 628 F.2d 848, 853 (4th Cir. 1980) (“evidence of subsequent remedial measures may be admitted to impeach”).

Morbark opened that door. In opening statement, counsel asserted that “the evidence will indicate that after Hurricane Andrew the Army Corps of Engineers ordered thirty machines just like the one that is involved in this case.” R4-141-22. On cross-examination of Infinger, counsel elicited that the City “still ha[d] that Morbark chipper machine” and was “still using that machine.” Id. at 44. These statements invited the inference that the seventeen-inch chute remained the safest design in use. The district court correctly overruled the objection and permitted rebuttal testimony that the chute had been lengthened. Id. at 51, 56 (“you opened the door when you started making suggestions to the jury that the city was still using that chipper”).

Having properly admitted the evidence for impeachment, the court erred in later admonishing the jury to disregard it. That ruling stripped Wood of the only effective means of countering Morbark’s misleading portrayal and denied her a fair trial. The denial of the motion for new trial therefore constituted an abuse of discretion. See, e.g., United States v. Lankford, 955 F.2d 1545, 1552 (11th Cir. 1992).

The judgment should be reversed and the case remanded for a new trial.