ARGUMENT

The district court erred in admitting the testimony of two assistant district attorneys and a police lieutenant. That testimony improperly vouched for the credibility of Officers Ramos and Rivera, expressed legal conclusions on probable cause, and interpreted evidence equally accessible to the jury. These errors require reversal.

A witness may not bolster the credibility of another. In Michelson v. United States, 335 U.S. 469, 477 (1948), the Court explained that character evidence is received only “for certain narrow purposes” and not to permit one witness to place “the imprimatur of his own credibility” upon another. The ADAs’ statements that they found the officers “credible” and “truthful” directly violated this rule.

Opinion testimony may not invade the province of the jury by stating legal conclusions. In United States v. Spaulding, 293 U.S. 498, 506 (1935), the Court held that an expert’s opinion on an ultimate fact “called for a finding upon a controverted fact” that “was one of fact to be determined by the jury upon all the evidence.” The ADAs’ and lieutenant’s assertions that probable cause existed and that certain evidence “strengthened” the officers’ case supplied precisely the forbidden legal conclusions.

Nor may a witness interpret evidence that jurors can evaluate unaided. In Baltimore & Ohio R.R. v. Groeger, 266 U.S. 521, 529 (1925), the Court cautioned that expert testimony is unnecessary when “the jury [is] as well qualified as the witness to draw the proper inference.” The officers’ accounts and the photographs were before the jury; the government witnesses’ commentary on their relative strength usurped the jurors’ role.

These violations were not harmless. The testimony came from ostensibly neutral public officials and addressed the two central disputed issues—officer credibility and probable cause. Reversal is therefore required.

The district court also erred in refusing a punitive-damages instruction. Under Scott v. Donald, 165 U.S. 58, 86 (1897), punitive damages are available when a jury could find that officers acted “with a design to oppress” or in “reckless disregard of the rights of others.” Appellants’ evidence permitted such a finding. The court likewise should have instructed that, under New York law as declared in People v. O’Connor, 257 N.Y. 162, 166 (1931), obstruction of governmental administration requires an underlying lawful arrest. Both instructions should be given on remand.