I. The District Court Erred in Granting Summary Judgment on Wasek’s Title VII and EL-CRA Claims Because Genuine Issues of Material Fact Exist as to Whether the Harassment Occurred Because of His Sex.

Title VII prohibits discrimination “because of … sex.” 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1). The statute “protects men as well as women.” Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Servs., Inc., 523 U.S. 75, 78 (1998). The same standard governs claims under Michigan’s Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act. See, e.g., Radtke v. Everett, 442 Mich. 368, 381–82 (1993).

Harassing conduct need not be motivated by sexual desire to support an inference of discrimination on the basis of sex. Oncale, 523 U.S. at 80. A plaintiff may establish that same-sex harassment occurred because of sex by showing that the harasser treated members of one sex differently. Id. at 80–81. Here, Ottobre directed repeated, overtly sexual touching and comments exclusively at Wasek: grabbing his buttocks, poking him with tools, and stating “you’ve got a pretty mouth,” “boy you have pretty lips,” and “you know you like it sweetheart.” These acts were not isolated; they continued after Wasek’s direct protests and were observed by the rig boss, who laughed rather than intervened.

The record permits the inference that Ottobre’s conduct was directed at Wasek because he is male. Ottobre did not engage in comparable behavior toward female employees, and the physical and verbal acts were sexual in character and targeted at Wasek’s body and perceived receptivity. See Oncale, 523 U.S. at 80 (recognizing that “a same-sex sexual-harassment claim” may proceed on evidence that the conduct was “explicit or implicit proposals of sexual activity”). Supervisors’ responses—advising Wasek not to “make waves” and suggesting the men “duke it out”—further indicate that the conduct was viewed as sex-based harassment that the company declined to address.

Because Wasek has raised a triable issue whether the harassment occurred because of his sex, summary judgment was improper on both the Title VII and EL-CRA claims.